0	We do not believe that we should cherry-pick .
1	But this is not what happens .
2	Of course , if a drug addict becomes a pusher , then it is right and necessary that he should pay and answer before the law also .
3	Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to begin by thanking Mr Burtone for his report .
4	' Legal drugs ' ( tranquillizers ) finding their way on to an illegal market , especially when used in combination with alcohol , are a major and serious problem particularly for young people .
5	I should like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to Mr Titley .
6	It was a very difficult position and I therefore am delighted about the new agreement .
7	We must accept that , in the realm of blood and plasma collection , the systems vary and operate on mixed bases .
8	The Minutes of yesterday 's sitting have been distributed .
9	To this end the Oostlander report takes substantial note of the European Commission guidelines which are very clear , very precise and do not leave room for subjective interpretation .
10	Europe should not get over ambitious by trying to manage public health policy .
11	In any event , the National Front demands that the peoples of Europe should be directly consulted in a referendum to decide on the approval or rejection of Maastricht II .
12	The authors of the report consider that enlargement to the east is undoubtedly possible in theory , but will be far more difficult in practice .
13	I would ask you , Members of the European Parliament present here , to support this amendment by Mrs Stenius-Kaukonen which all members of the Finnish parliament across party boundaries support .
14	They are silting up .
15	France was the first to take diplomatic and humanitarian action .
16	I constantly bring this matter up both in writing to the President and to the heads of the political groups .
17	Question No 7 by María Izquierdo Rojo ( H-0252 / 96 )
18	It is a question of how decisions are taken , that is to say whether this is done on the basis of a vote or of consensus , and whether unanimity is required or some form of qualified majority .
19	Nepal is very high up and helping this country where needs are very great must also be high up on our list .
20	This commitment to negotiations between the social partners could initially be reached on four matters , which seem to me essential , as of now . Negotiations must begin .
21	The Committee on Transport and Tourism has adopted four amendments for the second reading .
22	They will certainly enhance the feeling of the right of movement by EU citizens and they will also certainly benefit disabled drivers .
23	The initial Commission proposal was adopted unamended by Parliament on first reading .
24	Europe in particular has to remain a leading player if it is to safeguard its international competitiveness , not only in terms of economic performance but also in the exploitation and widespread application of new forms of technology .
25	The absence of harmonized rules governing intellectual property is not unique to Europe .
26	We are giving a clear political signal to the Moroccan authorities to continue along the road towards liberalization , political as well as economic .
27	Both demand a credible and active policy to reduce CO2 emissions through a combination of incentive , regulation and progressive taxation .
28	This is something which the committee as a whole felt strongly about in the resolution on the annual economic report and it is a significant omission that it is not in the resolution to wind up this debate .
29	It is like the story of Plato and the cave ; it is the signifier , not the signified .
30	The Committee on Transport would therefore have been well advised to devote rather more attention to that committee 's proposals , which were adopted with the strong backing of the PPE Group and the support of the socialist Members .
31	In ten years , our dependence on fish imports has increased by 30 % ; and the processing industry depends almost entirely on imported fish .
32	I hope we can look at and address properly the issue of quota hoppers .
33	The Commission heeded this call .
34	Subject : Tendering procedures for mobile phone licences
35	This means that terrestrial frequencies may face new competition in a form over which Europeans no longer have any influence .
36	What I am saying is that we agree with the House on the need for action .
37	Thank you very much , Mr Bangemann .
38	This sort of ungentlemanly conduct is not acceptable .
39	It does not solve the employment problem if the most we can do is offer firms new profit margins , which provides no guarantee of employment , and also damages the environment and social security .
40	It is all very well to have common minimum rules on the employment of children , but my wife and I do not need an EU directive to decide whether our son should deliver newspapers .
41	So it is also necessary to establish very quickly whether the international presence in Bosnia , so fundamental to any reconstruction effort , is to continue .
42	I am grateful to the President-in-Office for his answer . However , I am sorry to have to say that the results of the Di Roberto mission fall short of our expectations .
43	Therefore there is a need for a European directive .
44	The procedure followed : complaints declared admissible and prima facie founded are communicated to the institution or body in question , which is asked to give a first opinion .
45	The work of the European Ombudsman and the Petitions Committee is complementary .
46	The annual activity report clearly states how the Ombudsman 's office works and what citizens should do if they want to take matters to the Ombudsman for consideration .
47	Her supporters know that by gathering together they are defying the ruling junta .
48	The military authorities are still playing too great a part in the social and political life of that nation .
49	The report clearly defines which beverages may be bottled in sparkling wine bottles .
50	Because crémant , which has acquired its patent of nobility here , is not an issue just for one region but for the European Union , too .
51	Since we took the initiative of tabling the oral question there has been some progress .
52	But our first concern is to preserve fish stocks , and especially herring stocks .
53	The Commission , for its part , will continue to play an active part in the intergovernmental conference .
54	Let me say to Mrs Green and the other Members that it is not true that the conciliation agreement with the European Parliament on the infrastructure projects was unilaterally changed at Florence .
55	Another problem the Molitor Group does not sufficiently deal with is implementation .
56	The same difficulty applies , mutatis mutandis as far as the European Parliament is concerned .
57	The resolution submitted by our Committee on Women 's Rights deserves the support of the European Parliament , the Commission and the Council .
58	My answer - and I hope Parliament 's too - will be a directive aimed at introducing a statutory right to interest for firms paid unwarrantably late .
59	It is an especial problem for our 17 million small and medium-sized enterprises .
60	It is local authorities and large organization , quangos and national governments which are by and large responsible for a very high proportion of that .
61	Madam President , the European Council in Florence gave the impression of enormous confusion where the problems of employment are concerned .
62	I took it over at the beginning of this Parliament , a lot of the work on it having already been done by a colleague of mine , Claude Delcroix .
63	Representatives of all sectors of industry have indicated , at a public hearing , that they see huge problems with the Commission proposals .
64	Firstly , in drawing up any new proposal , the Council and the Commission must take account of the views of the trade unions .
65	Are there any other comments ?
66	We therefore wish to see clear wording here as well .
67	Nevertheless , the rejection of consumptive embryo research - and on this point we are agreed - requires consistency .
68	No such decision has as yet been taken .
69	The scheme was to be set up this autumn and the aid paid direct to women 's networks by the Commission .
70	I therefore congratulate the European Parliament for having organized this debate , and would end by thanking you for inviting the Commission to take part in it .
71	How can one remain independent or claim to be combating corruption if , at the same time , one is in receipt of largesse , obviously with strings attached ?
72	Citizens have a better grasp of their rights and obligations .
73	And the Dublin European Council will reconfirm 1 January , 1999 as the beginning of the Third Stage of EMU .
74	In my view that reinforces the argument that one should not believe that EMU will automatically mean jobs .
75	The first one is in relation to the Helms-Burton legislation and our relations with the United States .
76	If you look at Parliament 's diary for 1997 , you will find that 8 and 15 September are actually Sundays and week-ending days , not week-beginning days .
77	Meier recommendation for second reading
78	Recently a German Council official told me that his Brussels office might as well be in Bonn , as his main point of reference was the German Foreign Ministry .
79	We refer to this in paragraph 4 of our resolution , the fourth indent , where we specifically state that the current approach is based on wishful thinking .
80	A major part of this work will be ensuring greater economic policy coordination between all 15 Member States .
81	This would cut down a great deal on abductions .
82	Traditionally , responsibility for decisions on custody has rested with national authorities .
83	Of course there is a difference .
84	At the same time , I cannot approve of terrorist acts in any form .
85	The volume of production in the sheepmeat sector is only 10 to 15 % of that in the beef and veal sector .
86	This is the whole point !
87	The necessary correction will be made .
88	Madam President , our main concern through this report and through this vote was , once more , to make it clear to the Commission that we will not accept further cuts in spending on development .
89	But yesterday 's papers said that Heineken had not in fact pulled out .
90	The repatriation operations are progressing smoothly .
91	Israel also points the way in the production of educational software .
92	At the same time , it contributes to a reduction in the amount of beef produced .
93	I thus look forward eagerly to the Commission 's communication and I should like to start this debate afresh with a number of questions .
94	I know that it is not easy , or something that can be achieved by tomorrow morning . Speaking for myself , I simply want us to be able to conduct our deliberations on a more reliable basis .
95	The Commission has not even got as far as submitting a proposal .
96	We do not need a central office for the whole of Europe which centrally compiles all the offences that have to be entered in the record of penalty points !
97	But I would like to know what percentage of all customs officials in those countries are trained to operate this kind of system .
98	How is it possible for the Commission to extend the transit system to other eastern countries before a system in collapse has been completely reformed in order to curb fraud ?
99	We believe that the resources should be increased in line with the problems and needs of our country and that measures must be put in place to speed up the absorption of funding and to monitor its use .
100	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
101	Finally , paragraph 93 states that the extreme right-wing parties advocate xenophobia .
102	Asking for asylum is not a crime , and should not be treated as such .
103	( rapporteur : Mr van der Waal ) .
104	There is a need for continuity in decisions of the kind we have already taken here in the House on telecommunications infrastructure .
105	We need detailed , concrete proposals .
106	Unfortunately , at this stage the running is being made by American companies and we are much slower in catching up on development of this software .
107	Consequently , as my report says , this is what we must do .
108	( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
109	The IGC must amend the Treaty so that it includes the fundamental right of equality between the sexes , but yet more is needed .
110	Some are unnecessary because they are already covered while others are not acceptable because they would mean changing existing law .
111	We must face up to the fact that we are talking about a redistribution of income and face what that involves .
112	The banning of overtime will deprive blue-collar workers of additional earnings , and they will not be able to make ends meet with their basic pay alone .
113	In the case of these substances , applications are made for the Community to fix maximum residue limits , as provided for in Council Regulation 2377 / 90 .
114	I hope it will spread around here .
115	At present , all radioactive waste on the peninsula is kept in medium-term storage facilities either on land or on board ships .
116	I would , therefore , like to conclude by saying that the Commission is being asked to do things , and to mention five things that we are doing or that we will do .
117	On the other hand , knowledge , instant communications and mobility will be the characteristics of the twenty-first-century economy .
118	They do not understand why Europe exists in theory but not in reality .
119	The fact of the matter is that in this century , 190 million people have been killed in wars , 60 million of those in Europe .
120	The debate on the state of the European Union is closed .
121	But that unfortunately has become a tradition !
122	telecommunications services ' whereas we are in fact talking about the linking of the facilities of organizations providing telecom services , which is the wording of the original version and which we would prefer .
123	I consider the establishment of a European mark that indicates conformity with European standards as an appropriate tool of quality policy that can contribute to improving our competitive position .
124	Are the controls able to be exercised properly and to what extent are they actually effective ?
125	That is something our citizens can understand .
126	So , congratulations to the organizers and to the European Community mission .
127	This may have been thanks to the sensible approach of the leading parties or to the absence of the other ethnic group , but it was certainly also thanks to the presence of I-FOR .
128	They were deliberately processed so slowly by the Serbs that many of them were unable to vote .
129	A. Even in a highly liberalized market , works of art constitute an exception .
130	Surely not .
131	We believe there is no way that alcohol consumption can be described as ' beneficial in moderation ' .
132	We have some of the finest dairy and beef herds but we also know everything about BSE , which has hit us more than other areas .
133	Madam President , I will make my contribution as brief as possible to make it easier for us to deal with the entire agenda .
134	Madam President , surely we must take things seriously !
135	I shall therefore now also give the floor to Mr Dell ' Alba once again on a point of order .
136	The common position does indeed incorporate many of the amendments proposed by Parliament at first reading .
137	I think that I echo the whole House in wishing you , on behalf of all our colleagues , all the very best for your political career in your home country , Austria . You have our warmest wishes .
138	Let us think back to the television without frontiers directive , Parliament 's first reading of which was completely ignored , because the Commission preferred to take the Council 's side .
139	For example , we were to maintain an open and transparent dialogue which would be accessible to the man in the street , an agreement which was defined in greater detail in the declaration of 25 October 1993 .
140	At the start of 1996 , there were 21 392 .
141	There is no hesitation in talking about ' reserves which are contrary to the principles of budgetary orthodoxy ' .
142	The next item is Question Time to the Commission ( B4-0971 / 96 )
143	It highlights in particular the advantages offered by short-sea shipping in the Baltic as a means of access to Scandinavia and to the CIS .
144	Whilst I support everything that my colleague , Ms Morgan has said , it is a wider issue than that .
145	If research has been carried out by several people or institutions in various different countries , it could be almost impossible to obtain consent .
146	The second point relates to a suitable budgetary allocation , as opposed to that proposed by the Council , which is totally inadequate and unacceptable .
147	With its proposal , the Commission is well on the way to undermining the whole point of the E number system .
148	But I must also remind you that I have received six motions for resolutions to close this debate .
149	The World Poverty summit in Copenhagen last year set us all the ambitious aim of eliminating absolute poverty world-wide .
150	I doubt whether the countries in question will vote for the proposal at the Intergovernmental Conference .
151	The Danish social democrats have voted in favour of the proposal to amend the list of extraction solvents , since the change does not affect the level of protection in Denmark .
152	We call on it for a burst of courage .
153	I had asked about the development of the single European market , in which three of the four freedoms are a danger , in my belief , to children .
154	We must therefore ensure that we conduct a policy in Member States which makes young people and others say no to narcotics .
155	It concerns the approximation not just of type approval but also of technical tests and integrating them on a European basis .
156	This initiative appears totally inopportune in a context of budget austerity .
157	It is true that to accept the challenge would have had the effect of endangering the interinstitutional agreement and starting a budget dispute .
158	Culture is being exterminated .
159	If there is no conclusive decision from the government , cereal production will deteriorate further in 1997 and 1998 .
160	Mr President , I agree with the previous speaker ; unfortunately it is easy to see in the case of Belarus what the legacy of the Soviet Union still means today .
161	Would it not be more correct , legally speaking , to place the measures under the third pillar and act at an intergovernmental level ?
162	I therefore call again on the Commission to start and close negotiations in good time in future so that the proper consultation procedure can be concluded and a legal base adopted before payments are made .
163	The industry was expecting that .
164	This is a hypocritical budget heading , given the environmental damage that we cause in our own countries .
165	It may be that media interest in AIDS in the developing countries has declined , but in any event it is not a major subject of public debate at the moment .
166	I think that that is the very great merit of Mrs McNally 's position and I must therefore congratulate her on her report .
167	In a nutshell , we believe it is right to be concerned about this issue , but this is the wrong legislation .
168	We shall seek to promote greater cohesion between the regions via improvement of the transfer of know-how on aspects of energy-saving strategy from regions with a developed energy efficiency dynamic to regions which are significantly behind in that respect .
169	I now come to the statement of assurance .
170	I am happy to inform you today that I was able to present a first report to Ecofin yesterday .
171	Both of these considerations have to be taken into account in our decision concerning the legal imposition of compulsory quotas of European productions in television broadcasts .
172	It is currently a matter of regret to us that the Hautala report has not provided the opportunity for real coordination of Community policies on competition , industrial policy , trade and the internal market .
173	It appears from contacts with the Commission that this is a problem in cross-border traffic in other Member States , too .
174	This is a view we do not in any way share .
175	Let me start by restating our determination that the European Union should play its part in this process , as indeed it is already doing through substantial economic and financial aid .
176	A minimum with exceptions is not a minimum .
177	But perhaps the Commission could also answer the question , or else it could do something very simple .
178	I hope , therefore , that there will be some further attention to procedures so that we can be accountable .
179	Parliament has adopted amendments which define nuclear technology as unsustainable , and here we all need to clarify what we mean with regard to sustainability and the nuclear issue .
180	It is vital for both farmers and the industry for the Commission to introduce a specific support system for non-food crops and to that end I call for a separate system of support for these crops .
181	The joint debate is closed .
182	In order to makes fisheries relations clearer and simpler , in 1995 the Commission received a mandate to negotiate new framework agreements with the Baltic republics to replace all existing fisheries agreements .
183	It is calculated that no duty is currently paid on 80 % of imported flowers .
184	I nevertheless , as a realist , acknowledge that it is a fact .
185	I also wanted to say that a few minutes ago Parliament received a petition signed by the largest number of people ever .
186	This plan will , of course , be adapted according to new developments in the region but the basic assumptions will , however , remain relevant .
187	One aspect will be that we ensure proper trials for those guilty of genocide .
188	A Council Working Group has been examining the two proposals and on 11 November Ecofin noted that substantial progress had been made , particularly on the Article 235 proposal .
189	Even today , the gap between the highest and lowest deficits among the EU States has become significantly narrower , and that trend must continue .
190	And finally , the most dramatic tragedy of all is that the market is global but the single currency will only be European .
191	Finally , Commissioner , and my concluding remarks are addressed particularly to you , obviously we would not want this own-initiative report to be just one more document on your table .
192	The criteria vary and the Member States consider that they are carried out by certain official services alone .
193	This assertion seems incorrect .
194	Living out an example is the most effective method of prevention .
195	Under the guise of harmonization , you will destroy social security .
196	I should now like to refer to a second , completely different issue .
197	It would cost ÖS 702 billion for the CCEE to comply with the EU water directive alone .
198	Thank you , Commissioner .
199	At the same time , I am disappointed that none of the legally binding agreements which have been made within the framework of interstate cooperation have yet come into force .
200	The negotiations for an agreement on trade and cooperation between the European Union and South Africa are between those countries and not between the European Union and southern Africa .
201	Does this mean that , at the Dublin Summit , the UK will be the only Member State not to have pilot action programmes for the Local and Regional Territorial Pacts for Employment ?
202	Madam President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , this is the second reading of the electricity directive , which is designed to create an internal market in electricity .
203	We will be supporting only these amendments , not the others , because we want the single electricity market to begin operation as soon as possible .
204	According to the case law of the European Court of Justice , a directive which has been adopted but not transposed is an adequate legal basis for claims by third parties .
205	Complaints have already been made , in France , Mr Cot , as you know .
206	Mr President , I tried to revert to the minutes before you moved on .
207	We are not opposed to this provided that the word definitive is not interpreted as ' standardised ' .
208	Human rights throughout the world in 1995-1996
209	Because only in that way will it be possible to bring an end to the brutal and abhorrent exploitation of the young .
210	We are calling for all these facts to be taken into consideration and for the case to be re-examined .
211	So I read that newspaper , and I think there are many newspapers that would not have the confidence to attack their government the way Globus does .
212	We have no complaints about you , quite the opposite , you have shown courage and insight in recent months .
213	Of course international intervention was an absolute must , an obligation , and we did not do what was necessary .
214	It is necessary , therefore , to provide a specific policy for the wetlands , based on their geographical areas .
215	In principle , we agreed with Mrs Lindeperg 's motion for a resolution and its criticism of the inadequacies in the area of the third pillar .
216	I am a holder of what is called the orange badge in the United Kingdom , and that will be affected by any changes that would be made as a result of this recommendation coming into being .
217	Approval of the Minutes
218	I must say it was unfortunate that she chose my report about which to make it .
219	If we accept that work makes an essential contribution to people 's prosperity and wellbeing , the same certainly holds good for disabled people too .
220	I have said it before and I say it again , we know who was poisoning the whole of Europe .
221	In this case the compensation exceeds the share of the budget allocated to Spain , resulting in a reduction in the compensation payments for all Spanish producers in the 1997 harvest .
222	Do not forget , ladies and gentlemen , do not forget that the essence of a democracy is not that what the majority says , goes .
223	I believe this message must be heeded .
224	I would also ask you to bear in mind the fact that no objections were made concerning this vote when the Minutes were submitted for approval on the following day .
225	Madam President , I also wish to express my best wishes to the Dutch presidency .
226	In short , we need to ensure that the information society offers equal opportunities and mutual benefits to all .
227	The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m .
228	We could , of course , have shown greater courage for co-determination and not for reduced participation , precisely because we were not under pressure of time .
229	I urge that we keep national traditions but at the same time advance democracy in the world of work at the European level .
230	The Commission wanted to include the budgetary provisions in the proposals .
231	Mr President , first I want to express my appreciation of the fine resolution in this annual debate on racism and xenophobia .
232	First of all , the fact that we should not and cannot deal with or look upon terrorist acts as something requiring exceptional procedures or legislation .
233	The Reding report is therefore both timely and important .
234	It is a mistake to assume that effectiveness is the same as supranationality .
235	At least we are making a start with implementing the noble aims set out in the Energy Charter .
236	There may be a simple explanation , and this may be due to a little slip-up or mistake in the administration .
237	There is just one more point I should like to make about this whole situation .
238	We believe that this situation must be reversed , and that social cohesion has to be our prime concern .
239	I must inform you that for technical reasons it was not possible to translate , print and distribute all of the amendments to this report in all languages .
240	For the sake , of course , of the unbridled pursuit of profit of monetarism and high finance .
241	I shall therefore concentrate on the part played by the Commission in this affair .
242	I should like to end by adapting a traditional saying : ' Friends of Plato , but friends of the truth even more ' .
243	The report recognizes the amount of money spent on research .
244	Nor do we want witch-hunts or soundbite sensationalism when we are assigning blame .
245	I should like to know how the Commission intends to shoulder this responsibility .
246	Regarding infringements , I just mentioned one case vis-à-vis one Member State .
247	I would like to thank the Commissioner for his comprehensive reply .
248	Question No 60 by Hubert Pirker ( H-0036 / 97 )
249	The Commissioner seems at a complete loss having received the report of the agency which the Commission itself commissioned .
250	It is a question of how determined we are to regulate in order to create the modes of transport we wish to see .
251	I would also like to thank the Committee on Budgets which sent a letter with their comments on the report .
252	There the similarity between me and Mr Bangemann probably ends .
253	I should just like to ask Commissioner Fischler one question : how long is the transition phase ?
254	Why did Mr Delors not come forward to protect and defend the Commission ?
255	takes guard against the privatization of social risks , especially with regard to health ' .
256	It requires clearly defined marking , and not least it requires information as to what the markings mean .
257	I hope to have answered all the questions .
258	Both sides are waging the political struggle remorselessly and it has been going on for years now .
259	European-level regulation of mortgage credit would therefore mean approximating the security and application rules at the same time , hence ultimately the EU-wide harmonization of national property law provisions .
260	I regret that , but , as you all know , the deadline of 1 January next year is putting pressure on us all .
261	If we require it to bear the additional burden of the social policy , we will be hounding more and more jobs out of Europe .
262	We considered whether we should go on waiting for the Directive , which is impossible in view of the date and the legal basis we are creating for national regulations , or whether we should accept a compromise .
263	It is sensible to strengthen consumer rights and interests in the area of financial services , banks and insurance services for example .
264	This issue is so grave that it is hard to understand how something like this could have happened in the European Union .
265	Chad
266	Finally , the Commission has also exerted pressure to have a clause inserted in the Treaty , at the Intergovernmental Conference , prohibiting any form of racial discrimination .
267	We should also pay increasing attention - just as the rapporteur properly pointed out - to the interrelation between short , medium and long term types of aid , through a duly coherent approach .
268	In fact , the Official Journal has already published the Commission 's regulation on the certificates that importers must hand over to the Community 's customs authorities before furs can be imported .
269	That is why we are calling for guarantees for our citizens - it is clear that the tightening of security must not be used as a pretext to restrict their freedom !
270	After all the attention given to the electronic highway , the focusing of attention on the social aspects brought a breathing space .
271	It is not true , ladies and gentlemen , because there are no obsolete industries ; there are obsolete technologies .
272	We are voting for the report .
273	But of course we can define the conditions under which such an industry can operate more clearly than in the past .
274	The rapporteur has presented an excellent report .
275	Information technology is only a support .
276	What is the Commission doing to utilize Phare programme funds more efficiently in the important preparatory stage ?
277	Question No 22 by Mr Gallagher ( H-0181 / 97 )
278	Thousands of kilometres away the fraudster is able to hoodwink the system , and this has been happening .
279	The work done by the Committee of Inquiry , which sheds so much light on the situation and provides strong political impetus , will be of great help when it comes to translating these initiatives into action .
280	I believe we can help the population more effectively in that way than by merely appearing as firefighters whenever there is a crisis .
281	Those agreements are a source of employment for a very large number of structurally sensitive maritime regions .
282	I would therefore like to offer my thanks for your collaboration on this specific aspect .
283	I cannot vote in favour of this resolution because of the paragraphs on reinforced co-operation .
284	I could in fact have cut you off pursuant to Rule 47 , Mr Pirker , because you were not speaking on the subject , but engaging in a discussion of principle .
285	Now , the matter of women and the problematical situation of women in Afghanistan .
286	Now , three points related to this subject : a number of measures have been taken in connection with the specific subject of trade in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation .
287	1997 is a year of major steps towards nuclear disarmament .
288	Today , we are disappointed .
289	And yet GMOs are not the panacea of agricultural development !
290	Therefore I do not think that a number of you have been completely accurate today when you state that we did not take account of the fact that many Member States were against the recommendation to approve this maize .
291	And it is not very polite to interrupt a colleague while he is speaking .
292	The notion of Community financial assistance - that is the Treaty 's expression - does not , indeed , exclude genuine budgetary interventions .
293	I must stress that for this process to be successful it must be inclusive .
294	Masses and dimensions of motor vehicles
295	Next , there is the underspend of the appropriations : some 20 % for the structural funds and 24 % for the European social fund , in particular .
296	I think that the report is excellent and it is good that three individual issues have been raised as tangible examples so that everyone may understand what this is about .
297	It is not easy in the Commission but you know as well as I do that it will not be easy in Parliament either .
298	That applies more particularly today , at a time when a gradual increase in tensions and difficulties is threatening to sweep us off course .
299	The Commissioner was correct when he said that the crisis is political .
300	The Irish presidency presented a compromise text on this at the Council meeting of December last .
301	That broke the partnership , and the result of the broken partnership lies before you : a boring auto-oil concept that leads nowhere .
302	Even so , we do agree with the objectives of Fiorella Ghilardotti 's report .
303	This will allow plenty of time for your amendments to be fully considered .
304	Likewise the viewpoints of the scientists can change if they get together with the fishermen and find out that they are not all baddies , intent on destroying stocks .
305	The Commission accepts the following amendments : No 1 as a recital and Nos .
306	But , in a more general way , these obstacles result from the fact that the way of thinking in the sphere of academic recognition still prevails .
307	One of these instruments is precisely , within the framework of social protocol , social dialogue .
308	Not at all !
309	It goes without saying that child pornography and racist material are outrageous . But a cross-border medium like the Internet requires cross-border legislation , starting at the European level .
310	Perhaps because it is starved of fuel , because the Council refuses to free up enough funds for the various SME programmes . But that is not the main reason .
311	The committee supports the principle of today 's working party with regard to future maritime systems and strongly urges that this be extended to the fifth framework programme as well .
312	We know that driftnet fishing is unacceptable in the way that the catch of dolphins and turtles etc. is not to be recommended .
313	That speech may have been written yesterday , I do not know ; but it seems to me as if we are being treated as a rubber stamp .
314	The Green Paper addresses only the aspect of unauthorized reception of encrypted services .
315	Our aim should therefore be to ensure that organic feeds are in fact used exclusively , with a suitable transition period .
316	It is a shame that it has taken so long to appear but , as they say , ' better late than never ' .
317	For example , not enough attention has been paid to the EU 's northern dimension .
318	At the same time , Regulation No 2078 of 1992 on environmentally compatible agricultural production methods adapted to the landscape has also contributed substantially to this trend .
319	It will be possible to wage information society wars by means of the networks .
320	I am going to be asking you to be very dynamic and very cooperative .
321	These difficulties were all identified years ago but there seems there has been no way of solving them so far .
322	That is racism .
323	Mr President , the two reports which have been discussed here this morning should set alarm bells ringing for most European citizens .
324	The truth is that our joint actions are unimpressive .
325	Another factor also has to be borne in mind : there have as yet been relatively few rulings under the new procedure .
326	Shortly after this meeting , Mr Kabila announced that the capital , Kinshasa , would be taken by force if President Mobutu did not resign within a week .
327	But even the safest power station is manned by people .
328	This objective unfortunately does not exert sufficient pressure to give priority to developing renewable sources of energy .
329	This has to be said quite plainly here .
330	This is highlighted by the ongoing concern in relation to the safety of nuclear installations , including Sellafield , to which many people have referred during the earlier debate .
331	I am , therefore , against nuclear power practised in this way without any nuance .
332	Lastly , we are angered by the provocative stance of the Sudanese government vis à vis the repeated warnings by the international community , and in particular Security Council Resolution 1070 of 16 August 1996 .
333	He has already spent 28 months in prison under very unpleasant conditions , with serious consequences for his physical and mental health .
334	Whereas solar energy could be a solution in one region it is less viable in another , where perhaps water power or bio- energy would be more appropriate .
335	And what do we have here ?
336	We in the Committee on Budgets consider that this would be impossible to implement and would set an unacceptable precedent .
337	Our citizens are demanding rights .
338	Certainly this was a programme which brought great benefits in its day but these loans are less relevant now than they were .
339	Secondly , the Eurodac System is about the possibility of taking fingerprints in the case of asylum-seekers and has to do with the implementation of the Dublin Convention .
340	Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Parliament finds the proposal which is before us today to be very positive , Commissioner .
341	Let me conclude by asking the Commissioner to tell us a little more in his address about other measures he is prepared to propose with the aim of further increasing safety on ferries .
342	Mr President , my report also concerns agriculture , bee-keeping to be precise .
343	In fact I describe it to my constituents as the complaints department of the Parliament .
344	This was sold when he was not looking .
345	We need a strict timetable , with updates standards and the European Union must carry out regular checks and impose sanctions in cases of violations .
346	The main concern is unemployment .
347	In truth , the single currencies creates more problems than it solves and everyone knows that full well .
348	We need to know what are the revenue implications for states .
349	It is nonetheless important because , inevitably , the discussion on monetary union must be succeeded by an in-depth discussion on fiscal union , which must follow .
350	We disagree totally with the rapporteur 's proposals for a form of ' economic government ' The institutional edifice of the EU has no need of new political bodies or of any strengthening of the Commission 's information-gathering powers .
351	I am glad to hear that the House supports the Commission in those areas .
352	The Commission 's consideration of the construction of freight freeways does not fully compensate for that omission .
353	But it is not a reason for simply shelving that procedure .
354	Am I correct in assuming they are the stumbling block in this affair ?
355	So we want to start in 1997 to give ourselves enough time for a full revision .
356	I was obliged to make this request because I absolutely had to attend the proceedings of the Dutch parliament this afternoon and I am particularly obliged to you for having agreed to hold this debate this evening .
357	As a Parliament , are we or are we not a budgetary authority ?
358	So the biggest income loss will be borne by the markets that have not been reformed since 1992 rather than by those , such as cereals market , that have been reformed .
359	Retailers , too , are calling for clear guidelines to ensure that they will not need to be ashamed of their customers .
360	But I would point out to the Commissioner that there are three readings under co-decision .
361	Commercially speaking , the Commission is asking for the adaptation of the treaty to current realities .
362	We should resist any last minute attempts to reverse that decision .
363	Let us not miss the opportunity .
364	I found it excellent .
365	Matters we regard as particularly important are improving the working conditions between the WEU and the EU and the development of a European security system that is not dependent on the USA .
366	Passing the hat round and trying to move things from pillar to post is not the model way of doing things .
367	I would even say , without irony , that the problem is so great that we cannot even assess the size exactly .
368	China , for its part , has expectations to live up to .
369	This is very fair and indeed this code has been welcomed by the social partners and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs .
370	Anything else would be disreputable . Do you not think so , Commissioner Flynn ?
371	First of all , recent communications on the information society and the action plan , now in its second version .
372	But nonetheless that represents a significant step to improve killing trapping methods , including those currently used in the Community .
373	We can use this programme properly to help counter the very powerful forces that are there underneath the surface but will , if unchecked , lead to racism , fascism and nationalism .
374	The amendment will therefore be accepted with a slight alteration in the wording .
375	It would also have been vital to specify , secondly , that a foreign policy is appreciated in terms of its effective influence on the ground .
376	But , faced with these problems , the report does not come up with an answer .
377	The report contains a good analysis of the ' democratic deficiency ' in the EU .
378	That is true for mineral oils , it is true for tobacco and it is also true for alcohol .
379	Well , we are already running five minutes late , but I could still hold a roll-call , as Mr Tomlinson has requested .
380	The group of the European People 's Party supports this report .
381	Madam President , this is a very technical but important report since we are dealing with the question of food safety and hygiene .
382	In Finland , more than two thirds of schools are networked , whereas the corresponding figure for the Union as a whole is less than 5 % .
383	There are criticisms to be made , there are many more things we have to achieve and we have to make it clear that these intergovernmental conferences are perhaps no longer the right method to use .
384	Granted , we are on the wrong course , but in fact the vessel is drifting , engines stopped .
385	In my own country - Austria , which has only recently joined the European Union - virtually no one has heard of the Ombudsman .
386	That , of course , is untrue .
387	We have made that crystal-clear in Article 3 .
388	Madam President , Mr Rothley , you have argued very , very eloquently today in favour of employment , and you have undoubtedly imparted a sense of vision with regard to this entire issue .
389	Legislation needs to be introduced with care , and markets should be established on a reciprocal basis .
390	I would like to address my remarks to two particular dimensions of the SAB , firstly on the consumer health policy unit , and secondly on the transfer of funds for the trademarks agency in Alicante .
391	Experience of the ad hoc procedure has been reasonably good to date .
392	That is not enough of an economic link , it must be greater than that .
393	However , I must confess to this House that we are late with inspections in other fields which are of enormous importance .
394	What proposals would he make in the context of the IGC in terms of specific policies and measures ?
395	In my view , however , it does not matter what we call the document which cites the wrongdoers and their wrongdoings .
396	You have one minute in all and not for each point of order .
397	I think that that would make sense and I do not know , since I have not yet had the time to read this enormous document , whether that is going to be possible .
398	I am expressly grateful to the Commission for taking an aggressive approach to this subject .
399	The Commission will also accept Amendment No 7 .
400	But I do believe that the Commission communication is a start , and we should try to take full advantage of all possibilities within the European Union .
401	He suggested that I said that the Court of Auditors stopped these contracts .
402	I myself recommended it to Parliament in the 1990 report on that strategy .
403	All our rural development projects in the Philippines are in the poorest parts of the country , seeking specifically to help those who are worst off .
404	Mr Macartney has now been made a minister for the social dialogue .
405	The Commission therefore decided that this should be approved before the end of July .
406	We shall now proceed to the vote .
407	Developments on the lines of those in Georgia and Armenia are unfortunately not yet visible in Tajikistan , which only recently began to introduce economic stabilization measures .
408	However , ladies and gentlemen , we began our week here with an expression of grief .
409	It takes away our individuality and our humanity .
410	' Nine thousand banana producers ?
411	All this has done no more than create further confusion on the matter and has not indicated a clear route for taking a decision at Community level .
412	These things concern all of us .
413	These have come primarily from Russia , often relabelled as being recycled products - Russia appears to be contravening the Montreal Convention - and from China where output is actually growing .
414	And we have never accepted the extra-territorial principle of the act , which interferes with the trade relations of the European Union and its Member States with third countries such as Cuba .
415	Libel and slander would not fall into this category either - no indictable offence which is punishable by a sentence of up to three years .
416	There must be a strict limit to what Member States can finance via a universal service mechanism .
417	That is the least one can ask if one wants to talk at all about combatting fraud .
418	Instead of at last taking the necessary steps , however , what does the Amsterdam Treaty do ?
419	Internal state authorities can also regulate this to whatever extent they think necessary .
420	In fact the President 's Office has already investigated this and agrees with your interpretation .
421	Mr President , I am beginning to get irritated .
422	I have the bill from the restaurant which I will give to administration .
423	When will it be realised that it is high time for the use of reason and most certainly not of weapons ?
424	Madam President , General Pinochet will cease to be Chief Head of State of Chile in March 1998 .
425	This is quite a good idea .
426	This was a matter the Commission had discussed within the action plan with Canada .
427	Given the importance and sensitivity of the subject , our rapporteur has guided the committee skilfully throughout this period until we were able to reach a conclusion which we were able to adopt with no votes against .
428	That is a proven fact and has been discussed for years in great detail .
429	All the creatures of the Earth love , suffer , and die as we do .
430	That must be our primary objective .
431	Therefore , we have to be extremely careful when we analyse them .
432	The information society forum , in which all these people mentioned by Mr Theonas work , is quite enthusiastic about the new possibilities .
433	Mr President , I appreciate your being present in Madrid on 12 October for our anti-racism match , although of course that is not my point .
434	Fourthly , we should harmonize our skills training , that is to say we must bring this to the level proposed by the Commission .
435	I think we have said a lot about the 20 million unemployed , which is good , but we have said nothing about the 55 million poor people , many of whom actually have jobs .
436	Next year , as budgetary rapporteur , I hope to be able to treat Raphael as a true son , and not as a stepson .
437	I hope that we will , in the field of employment , be won over by the same pressure for convergence which has been ours for the last few years in the field of economic and monetary matters .
438	But until that occurs , I would like to say three things .
439	Question No 3 by Patricia McKenna ( H-0689 / 97 ) :
440	We support the proposal to set up a separate budget item for special measures for the Baltic area .
441	Now a short comment on the declaration itself . I completely agree with the contents .
442	The Slovak President , Prime Minister and Parliament have publicly undertaken to remedy these deficiencies .
443	People may also have been seriously injured .
444	Indeed , what is important is article 100A , since the purpose of this action is effective and uniform application of the rule of Community law , which is a condition of the good functioning of the internal market .
445	For that reason we are currently negotiating parity agreements with these states on veterinary matters and plant protection , in the form of supplementary agreements to the association agreements .
446	Age is important as well , to avoid speculative transactions spanning this intervention .
447	Besides that the age requirements for trees are difficult to check .
448	I cannot therefore share the view of some of my colleagues who feel they see in the report an attack on community rights .
449	Afterwards of course , the market will come into its own .
450	When we look at what the USA and Japan are doing , then these are fairly modest demands .
451	We believe that our amendments contribute something useful .
452	Now , this standardization cannot be obtained directly , because public opinion rejects it .
453	The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed .
454	However , differences of opinion existed as to when action should commenc , above all regarding objective 2000 .
455	The pressure of public opinion and the pressure of markets would then have much more effect than the initiation of any breach of contract proceedings by the Commission .
456	But how could he have overlooked you ?
457	Madam President , ladies and gentlemen .
458	In practical terms this means defining salient points on the basis of which the living standards of women in the poorest countries can be improved by integrating gender issues in development cooperation .
459	Those who say that the available funds are insufficient are right .
460	Perhaps rather , it demonstrates that the treaty does not frighten them .
461	The European Parliament has come out in favour of a tree as the symbol of a growing community and not for three rigid pillars .
462	The rise in the number of those working part time is especially marked in certain countries , such as the Netherlands and Great Britain , where part time work accounts for 25 % of the whole .
463	We know from surveys that before 1993 compliance with customs controls was costing traders some ECU 7.5 billion every year - that is based on 1992 trade levels but expressed in today 's money .
464	Mr President , it is my pleasure this evening to welcome this report on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists .
465	During its five year duration further useful experience will be gained , and this is to find constant reflection in the one year planning .
466	We were unable to support the report in the vote .
467	I believe this is the approach we have to take now in planning this , the greatest enlargement - the greatest challenge of our history .
468	It omits to note that the euro , if it is brought in , will be a new and powerful factor of division between the Member States of the wider Europe .
469	It would be helpful if we could support this initiative .
470	Everything they do is basically a step in that direction .
471	Its need cannot seriously be questioned .
472	We have also signed it and would like that to be recorded please .
473	It is important to provide these countries with a continued incentive to prepare for a future admission to the European Union .
474	We now hope that through the individual projects we shall gain experience and knowledge which can also be of benefit to others .
475	Is it possible to get a reasonably satisfactory answer to this question ?
476	It goes without saying , of course , that the Commission does not pursue a nuclear policy , in the sense of trying to obtain as many nuclear contracts for industries in the Member States .
477	For instance , the 5 cent coin , at 21.75 mm , is exactly the same size as the 20 cent coin , which makes things extremely difficult for people with disabilities .
478	We have spared no effort , in particular by clearly stating the progress envisaged in the deepening of our customs union .
479	In any case , I cannot recommend voting in favour of these two amendments .
480	Then of course there are the well-known objections to this technology , not least in terms of waste .
481	Still we frequently see that American or other delegations handle their work efficiently and better than ours .
482	According to the Commission 's draft regulation , only products with proteins checked and analyzed with the current methods of analysis will necessarily be labelled as genetically modified soya- or maize-based products .
483	I would like to thank Commissioner van de Broek and his cabinet colleagues for their assistance in this " liberation ' .
484	The destruction of a life is always painful , but this was the life of a democratic representative of the people .
485	Because of where I live , I regularly experience the deficiencies of the rail link between Madrid and Lisbon , and there are other capital cities within the Union which could be mentioned as further examples .
486	It is regrettable that the Commission has excluded the social question , despite the fact that some 500 000 jobs have already been lost throughout the European rail industry .
487	In this way , Parliament will not have access to the recommendations of the Ecofin Council until the morning of 2 May .
488	This federal Europe of the regions destroys nationhood , and is in tune with the wishes of the supporters of the global economy .
489	I have a very brief question .
490	We are disturbed by the current deadlock , which is a matter of vital concern to the European Union as much as it is to anybody else .
491	Europe is sick .
492	Large differences exist , both between categories of businesses and workers .
493	Support for these areas includes help for the fishing industry , laid down initially in a regulation of 1992 , postponed in 1994 and 1995 and which should have been completed by 31st December 1997 .
494	I hope you will understand that , in Bosnia , we are largely dependent on the cooperation of the authorities .
495	I should like , first of all , to thank the rapporteur , Mr Seal , for his account of the evolution of aviation liberalization in the European Union .
496	They are low paid with poor working conditions and their legitimate demand is that they be represented professionally with regard to pay and health and safety conditions .
497	That to me seems a backward step .
498	According to the Commission , the new Objective 2 should only benefit 18 % of the Community population .
499	Secondly , as regards the Structural Funds , there is another problem : the Structural Funds Regulation does not allow for payments to cover natural catastrophes .
500	It goes without saying that inspectors from the Member States can be included in this too .
501	All that will need to change is what happens anyway with banking institutions : an extra currency needs to be added to the list of currencies that the banking system deals with .
502	There has been a debate between Parliament , the Council and the Commission about exactly where these lists should be submitted .
503	The various existing bilateral agreements on investments were to be replaced by a multilateral agreement based on the principles of most-favoured nation treatment and national treatment , which would significantly liberalize investment and provide broadly-based protection for it .
504	Does the Commission accept that serial complaints are themselves injurious to the Community interest ?
505	Madam President , I would like to confine my remarks to Alzheimer 's disease .
506	The second issue over which there is concern is the issue of delay .
507	I note that the period since the Bangkok Summit has also seen much thought being given to questions of process , coordination and vision .
508	Resumption of the session
509	I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999, and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period.
510	Although, as you will have seen, the dreaded 'millennium bug' failed to materialise, still the people in a number of countries suffered a series of natural disasters that truly were dreadful.
511	You have requested a debate on this subject in the course of the next few days, during this part-session.
512	In the meantime, I should like to observe a minute' s silence, as a number of Members have requested, on behalf of all the victims concerned, particularly those of the terrible storms, in the various countries of the European Union.
513	Please rise, then, for this minute' s silence.
514	(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
515	Madam President, on a point of order.
516	You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka.
517	One of the people assassinated very recently in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who had visited the European Parliament just a few months ago.
518	Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write a letter to the Sri Lankan President expressing Parliament's regret at his and the other violent deaths in Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything she possibly can to seek a peaceful reconciliation to a very difficult situation?
519	Yes, Mr Evans, I feel an initiative of the type you have just suggested would be entirely appropriate.
520	If the House agrees, I shall do as Mr Evans has suggested.
521	Madam President, on a point of order.
522	I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility.
523	My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and which I will then raise again.
524	The Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually.
525	It says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability.
526	I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible.
527	I want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report, not a legislative proposal, and whether that is something I can competently do on Thursday.
528	That is precisely the time when you may, if you wish, raise this question, i.e. on Thursday prior to the start of the presentation of the report.
529	Madam President, coinciding with this year' s first part-session of the European Parliament, a date has been set, unfortunately for next Thursday, in Texas in America, for the execution of a young 34 year-old man who has been sentenced to death. We shall call him Mr Hicks.
530	At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been presented, which many people signed, including myself.
531	However, I would ask you, in accordance with the line which is now constantly followed by the European Parliament and by the whole of the European Community, to make representations, using the weight of your prestigious office and the institution you represent, to the President and to the Governor of Texas, Mr Bush, who has the power to order a stay of execution and to reprieve the condemned person.
532	This is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld.
533	Thank you, Mr Segni, I shall do so gladly.
534	Indeed, it is quite in keeping with the positions this House has always adopted.
535	Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to a case in which this Parliament has consistently shown an interest.
536	It is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
537	All of us here are pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia, too, access to environmental information is a constitutional right.
538	Now, however, he is to go before the courts once more because the public prosecutor is appealing.
539	We know, and we have stated as much in very many resolutions indeed, including specifically during the last plenary part-session of last year, that this is not solely a legal case and that it is wrong for Alexander Nikitin to be accused of criminal activity and treason because of our involvement as the beneficiaries of his findings.
540	These findings form the basis of the European programmes to protect the Barents Sea, and that is why I would ask you to examine a draft letter setting out the most important facts and to make Parliament's position, as expressed in the resolutions which it has adopted, clear as far as Russia is concerned.
541	Yes, Mrs Schroedter, I shall be pleased to look into the facts of this case when I have received your letter.
542	Madam President, I would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that, during this first part-session of the new year, the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably.
543	But, Madam President, my personal request has not been met.
544	Although there are now two Finnish channels and one Portuguese one, there is still no Dutch channel, which is what I had requested because Dutch people here like to be able to follow the news too when we are sent to this place of exile every month.
545	I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch channel as well.
546	Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this matter is on the agenda for the Quaestors' meeting on Wednesday.
547	It will, I hope, be examined in a positive light.
548	Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament does not adhere to the health and safety legislation that it actually passes?
549	Why has no air quality test been done on this particular building since we were elected?
550	Why has there been no Health and Safety Committee meeting since 1998?
551	Why has there been no fire drill, either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
552	Why are there no fire instructions?
553	Why have the staircases not been improved since my accident?
554	Why are no-smoking areas not enforced?
555	It seems absolutely disgraceful that we pass legislation and do not adhere to it ourselves.
556	Mrs Lynne, you are quite right and I shall check whether this has actually not been done.
557	I shall also refer the matter to the College of Quaestors, and I am certain that they will be keen to ensure that we comply with the regulations we ourselves vote on.
558	Madam President, Mrs Díez González and I had tabled questions on certain opinions of the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, which appeared in a Spanish newspaper.
559	The competent services have not included them in the agenda on the grounds that they had been answered in a previous part-session.
560	I would ask that they reconsider, since this is not the case.
561	The questions answered previously referred to Mrs de Palacio' s intervention, on another occasion, and not to these comments which appeared in the ABC newspaper on 18 November.
562	Mr Berenguer Fuster, we shall check all this.
563	I admit that, at present, the matter seems to be somewhat confused.
564	We shall therefore look into it properly to ensure that everything is as it should be.
565	Madam President, I should like to know if there will be a clear message going out from Parliament this week about our discontent over today's decision refusing to renew the arms embargo on Indonesia, considering that the vast majority in this Parliament have endorsed the arms embargo in Indonesia in the past?
566	Today's decision not to renew the embargo is extremely dangerous considering the situation there.
567	So Parliament should send a message, since that is the wish of the vast majority.
568	It is irresponsible of EU Member States to refuse to renew the embargo.
569	As people have said, the situation there is extremely volatile.
570	There is, in fact, a risk of a military coup in the future.
571	We do not know what is happening.
572	So why should EU arms producers profit at the expense of innocent people?
573	In any event, this question is not presently included among the requests for topical and urgent debate on Thursday.
574	Agenda
575	The next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 13 January pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
576	No amendments have been proposed relating to Monday and Tuesday.
577	Relating to Wednesday:
578	The Group of the Party of European Socialists requests that a Commission statement be included on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the Commission.
579	I would like Mr Barón Crespo, who made the request, to speak to propose it. That is, if he so wishes, of course.
580	Then we shall follow the usual procedure, hearing one speaker in favour and one against.
581	Madam President, the presentation of the Prodi Commission' s political programme for the whole legislature was initially a proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists which was unanimously approved by the Conference of Presidents in September and which was also explicitly accepted by President Prodi, who reiterated his commitment in his inaugural speech.
582	This commitment is important because the Commission is a body with a monopoly of initiative in accordance with the Treaties and, therefore, basically dictates this Parliament' s political and legislative activity for the next five years.
583	I would also like to point out, Madam President, that this Parliament voted to express its confidence in President Prodi during the previous legislature. It did so again during this legislature, in July, and then, in September, it voted once more to approve the whole Commission.
584	There has therefore been enough time for the Commission to prepare its programme and for us to become familiar with it and explain it to our citizens.
585	To this end, I would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible.
586	The events of last week - which originated outside the Conference of Presidents, that Conference being used simply to corroborate and ratify decisions taken elsewhere - present us with a dilemma. Either the Commission is not ready to present this programme, in which case it should clarify it.
587	According to its President, it is in a position to do so.
588	Given that the Commission is represented by Vice-President de Palacio, I believe that, before voting, it would help if the Commission could let us know how ready it is to present this programme, as agreed. Alternatively, Parliament is not ready to examine this programme, as some appear to be suggesting.
589	In my opinion, this second hypothesis would imply the failure of Parliament in its duty as a Parliament, as well as introducing an original thesis, an unknown method which consists of making political groups aware, in writing, of a speech concerning the Commission' s programme a week earlier - and not a day earlier, as had been agreed - bearing in mind that the legislative programme will be discussed in February, so we could forego the debate, since on the next day our citizens will hear about it in the press and on the Internet and Parliament will no longer have to worry about it.
590	My Group believes that since a parliament is meant to listen, debate and reflect, there can be no justification whatsoever for this delay and we believe that, if the Commission is ready to do so, we still have time to re-establish the original agreement between Parliament and the Commission and proceed in a manner which fulfils our duty to our fellow citizens.
591	Therefore, the proposal of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and which you have mentioned, is that the Prodi Commission present its legislative programme on Wednesday, including its proposed administrative reform, because, otherwise, we could find ourselves in a paradoxical situation: on the pretext that there is no text, on the one hand, the President of the Commission would be denied his right to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, there would be a debate on a reform when Parliament had no prior knowledge of the texts on which it is based.
592	Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you to request that the Commission express its opinion on this issue and that we then proceed to the vote.
593	(Applause from the PSE Group)
594	Madam President, I really am quite astonished at Mr Barón Crespo' s behaviour and the fact that he is now asking for this item to be put on Wednesday's agenda.
595	Mr Barón Crespo, you were unable to attend the Conference of Presidents last Thursday.
596	I am not criticising this; it happens from time to time that people send someone to represent them.
597	Mr Hänsch represented you on this occasion.
598	In the Conference of Presidents, we had an in-depth discussion.
599	Your Group was alone in advocating what you are saying now.
600	We then put it to a vote.
601	As you know, each chairman has the same number of votes as his Group has Members.
602	There was a vote on this matter.
603	As I recall, the outcome of this vote was 422 votes to 180 with a few abstentions.
604	This means that all the Groups with the exception of the non-attached Members - but, of course, they are not a Group - were in agreement; only your Group thought that we should proceed as you have proposed here.
605	All of the others were of a different opinion.
606	That was the decision.
607	I should now like to comment on the issue itself.
608	We have confidence in the Commission and in Romano Prodi and, after a difficult procedure, as everyone knows, the vast majority of our Group supported the vote of confidence in Romano Prodi and the Commission.
609	We believe, however, that the Commission's strategic plan needs to be debated within a proper procedural framework, not only on the basis of an oral statement here in the European Parliament, but also on the basis of a document which is adopted in the Commission and which describes this programme over the five-year period.
610	There is no such document!
611	The Commission will present its programme for the year 2000 in February.
612	We have said, very well, if the Commission does not wish to introduce the 2000 programme as early as January then we will do it in February.
613	We have agreed to this.
614	After all, we do not wish to quarrel with the Commission; if at all possible, we believe that the Commission and Parliament need to tread the same path.
615	However, we in Parliament also have a supervisory role with regard to the Commission and we do not have to agree with everything which comes out of the Commission.
616	I should like us to be able to do a reasonable amount of preparation for the debate on the five-year programme in our Groups.
617	You cannot prepare if you hear a statement in this House and have no idea of its content.
618	That is why we would recommend - and it is my impression that the Commission is also open to this idea - that we hold the debate on the Commission's long-term programme up to the year 2005 in February - and I hope that the Commission will agree on a programme before then which it will propose to us - and that, at the same time, in February we also hold the debate on the Commission's legislative programme for the year 2000.
619	The fact that the subjects are connected also suggests that we should hold the debate on both programmes together.
620	That is why my Group firmly rejects the proposal made by the Socialist Group.
621	(Applause from the PPE-DE Group)
622	I propose that we vote on the request of the Group of the Party of European Socialists that the Commission statement on its strategic objectives should be reinstated.
623	(Parliament rejected the request) President.
624	Still on the subject of Wednesday' s sitting, I have another proposal regarding the oral question on capital tax.
625	The PPE-DE Group is requesting that this item be taken off the agenda.
626	Is there a member who wishes to speak on behalf of this Group to propose this?
627	Madam President, I can hear a ripple of laughter from the Socialists. I was told that large sections of the Socialist Group were also keen to have this item taken off the agenda, because at the vote in the Conference of Presidents no vote was received from the working group of Members of the Socialist Group responsible for this matter.
628	I do not know whether this information is correct, but the PPE-DE Group would, in any case, be grateful if this item were removed because Parliament has addressed this issue several times already.
629	Decisions have also been adopted against a tax of this kind.
630	That is why my Group moves that this item be taken off the agenda.
631	Thank you, Mr Poettering.
632	We shall now hear Mr Wurtz speaking against this request.
633	Madam President, I would firstly like to point out Mr Poettering' s lack of logic.
634	He has just been preaching to the Group of the Party of European Socialists because they went back on a decision taken in a perfectly clear manner at the Conference of Presidents, and now he is doing just the same.
635	We discussed that matter and we were unanimous, with the exception of the PPE and ELDR Groups.
636	As my fellow chairmen will recall, I even mentioned that it was not a matter of knowing whether one was for or against the Tobin tax, but of whether one dared to hear what the Commission and the Council thought of it.
637	It is not a lot to ask.
638	I therefore repeat the proposal that this oral question to the Commission and the Council should be retained so that we can find out, once and for all, the positions of these two bodies regarding the proposal which is relatively modest but which would give a clear message to public opinion, particularly after the tide of feeling generated by the failure of the Seattle Conference.
639	We shall proceed to vote on the PPE-DE Group' s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda.
640	(Parliament rejected the request, with 164 votes for, 166 votes against and 7 abstentions)
641	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Poettering for advertising this debate.
642	Thank you very much.
643	Madam President, has my vote been counted?
644	I was unable to vote electronically, since I do not have a card.
645	My vote was "in favour" .
646	Indeed, if we add the two Members who have declared themselves, then the result of the vote would be ....
647	Madam President, the Presidency has already declared the result of the vote.
648	There is no room for amendments.
649	Madam President, in the earlier vote - and I will abide by your ruling on this matter - on the question of the strategic plan of the Commission I indicated that I would like to speak in advance of the vote on behalf of my Group.
650	That did not happen.
651	I would appreciate it if, on the close of this item of business, I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group.
652	This is an important matter.
653	It would be useful for the record of the House to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis.
654	Madam President, I do not wish to reopen the debate, but I had also asked for the floor, to comment on Mr Barón Crespo's motion.
655	You did not call me either.
656	I regret this, but the vote has already been taken and the decision is made so let us leave the matter there.
657	I am terribly sorry, Mr Hänsch and Mr Cox.
658	I did not see you asking to speak.
659	Even so, I think the positions are quite clear and they shall be entered in the Minutes.
660	When we adopt the Minutes for today' s sitting tomorrow, then any Members who think the positions have not been explained clearly enough may ask for amendments.
661	This seems to me to be a workable solution.
662	Of course, the Minutes for tomorrow' s sitting will take into account any additional explanations.
663	I think this is a better solution than proceeding now to extremely time-consuming explanations of votes.
664	Mr Cox, Mr Hänsch, would this be acceptable to you?
665	Madam President, if the vote records correctly how my Group voted I shall not, and cannot, object to that.
666	If your ruling is that I cannot give an explanation of vote, I accept that but with reservations.
667	We shall pay particular attention to the wording of the Minutes, as we always do, of course.
668	If they do not properly reflect the positions adopted, then we may correct them, if necessary.
669	(The order of business was adopted thus amended)
670	Safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods
671	The next item is the report (A5-0105/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the harmonisation of examination requirements for safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterways (C5-0208/1999 - 1998/0106(COD)).
672	Commissioner, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be quite frank in saying that I welcome the Council's common position on harmonising the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway.
673	Firstly, we needed to take action on a formal level in order to meet the requirements of Directive 96/35/EC, which obliges the Member States to appoint safety advisers and to organise the training, instruction and examination of these people but does not explain this explicitly.
674	Secondly, by adopting this directive we achieve a) an increase in safety when dangerous goods are both transported and transhipped; b) a reduction in distortions of competition resulting from wide variations in national training structures and training costs and c) equal opportunities for safety advisers on the European labour market.
675	Thirdly, this directive, as it currently stands in the common position, guarantees - in particular because it confines itself exclusively to minimum standards - a high degree of flexibility and modest regulation by the European Union; by adopting it we contribute to the Member States' bearing a high level of individual responsibility.
676	All of this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore to be greatly welcomed.
677	Our amendments from the first reading have, I believe, been taken into account very satisfactorily.
678	They have either been accepted or transposed with no change in the substance, or they have been rejected because the corresponding European arrangements have not been included, for example a system of penalties for violations of the rules or a complex classification structure for related groups of questions.
679	The one unanimously adopted amendment of the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport, which concerns the timetable for implementing the directive, is something which I would urge you to support.
680	By not setting a specific date for the Member States to implement the directive and instead giving them a period of three months after its entry into force, we are introducing a flexibility clause which ensures that the directive will be implemented without delay.
681	I would urge you to endorse this.
682	Madam President, we cannot and must not accept the fact that we hear ever more frequently of accidents causing major damage on our roads, but also on our railways and waterways, not solely but at least partly because those involved do not take the transport of dangerous goods seriously enough or because - as a result of ignorance or a lack of training on the part of the drivers or others responsible for the various vehicles - a minor accident has all too often become a major disaster.
683	As an Austrian, I still have a vivid memory, as, I believe, we all do, of the catastrophe which cost so many human lives last year in the Tauern Tunnel, where subsequent work to rebuild the parts of the tunnel which had been destroyed in this fire continued for many months at huge expense.
684	The renovation project, which lasted for months, cut off this important route between the north and south of Europe.
685	The traffic which had to be diverted because of this stretched the patience of many thousands of people in the EU to the limit.
686	In fact, all hell broke loose in some municipalities in my province.
687	Prevention has to be our answer to disasters of this kind and this draft directive is an important step towards well-trained safety advisers being available, so that the right action is taken in good time.
688	All the same, we must not content ourselves with enacting European law to ensure greater safety.
689	We also need to follow this up and make sure that our rules are transposed by the Member States in good time and - even more importantly - we need to ensure that they are also applied afterwards.
690	Please let this not be yet another sector where we subsequently have to lament the lack of enforcement.
691	I should like to address one final point. We must not content ourselves with sealing another hole in the safety net and shutting our eyes to the fact that, where transport safety in Europe is concerned, there is still much more to be done.
692	In this context, I should like to make a request and ask the Commissioner responsible, who is with us here today, to table an appropriate text as soon as possible with a view to continuing to make it safer for traffic to transit tunnels in the future, so that we in Europe do not have to experience any more such disasters on this scale.
693	Madam President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Koch for his report which has, at its heart, the issue of transport safety.
694	The report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
695	I congratulate him on his excellent report.
696	Transport safety has sadly been in the news recently: the Paddington rail crash in London, the terrible rail crash in Norway, the two aviation crashes involving EU citizens and the natural disaster involving the Erika off Brittany - all within the last four months - remind us that transport safety can never be taken for granted and that those charged with protecting the public must be highly motivated and highly qualified.
697	The rapporteur has pointed out to the House that in its common position the Council has accepted six of Parliament's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of Parliament's other amendments has been retained.
698	My Group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the European Union as safe as possible.
699	When it comes to safety my Group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety.
700	We still have a lot of work to do in this area as recent events have proved.
701	Madam President, I would like to make a few comments.
702	I would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the report and, secondly, the Commission for the proposal it has submitted.
703	We are concerned here with the harmonisation of examination requirements but also, in fact, with minimum requirements.
704	This is a pity, in a sense.
705	Needless to say, safety on roads, railways and inland waterways is of key importance and, given the international nature of these types of transport, training for safety advisors should also be harmonised, therefore, as well as the requirements of the new ADR, for example, which is under way.
706	This is important, but so is enforcement and there are, of course, a number of reasons why we need to pay particular attention to this.
707	Just think of the road accidents which have occurred over recent years, for example in Belgium, the Netherlands and a number of other countries where lorries carrying dangerous goods continued to drive in foggy conditions when really they should have pulled off the road instead.
708	Or ships from Eastern Europe which moor adjacent to ships over here, with all the obvious risks that this entails.
709	Furthermore, it has transpired that research in the ports in Belgium, Finland, but also in Japan has shown that 50% of containers with partially dangerous cargo are not delivered correctly for shipment.
710	In short, the issue is an important one.
711	If we look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned, in a number of countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1 January of this year.
712	There will be major problems with enforcing this rule at present, especially with smaller companies, as these cannot afford safety advisors.
713	These smaller companies either dispose of their cargo or mix it with other cargo, which causes problems.
714	It is therefore also being requested that ISO 9002 certificates possibly include the finer details of these activities in the form of annual reports and company analyses.
715	The work is done. All that remains is the business of enforcement.
716	I would like to mention one final point.
717	With regard to enforcement, proper agreements must also be concluded with the Eastern European countries because they will not enter into treaties which deal with this matter until 1 July 2001, that is to say in eighteen months' time.
718	This gives them a competitive edge for the interim period.
719	This is not in itself anything dreadful, but we should prioritise particularly the safety aspects for goods transported by road, rail and inland waterways and incorporate these, as part of the acquis communautaire, as soon as possible and present them to the acceding states.
720	Madam President, the importance of transport safety is highlighted on a regular basis in this Parliament and rightly so.
721	The ever increasing volume of goods passing through Europe entails all kinds of risks, known and unknown, for employees and the social environment.
722	Those having to deal with these risks should therefore meet stringent requirements.
723	The relevant standards which have been laid down in another Directive, 95/35/EC, seem sufficiently adequate to advise people in a responsible manner on the organisation of the transport of dangerous goods.
724	I am very pleased that agreement has also been reached with the Council on minimum standards regarding examinations, although I would have preferred it if uniform, set standards and modules had been established, so that certificates would be of equal value internationally.
725	This, however, does not seem feasible.
726	Finally, the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is perfectly logical and I can, therefore, give it my wholehearted support.
727	Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate Mr Koch on his reports which, though technical, are nonetheless of very great significance for safety.
728	I should like to make just a few comments.
729	Firstly, I should like to ask the Commissioner - and I am convinced that my request will fall on fertile ground - to ensure that more attention is paid to the issue of safety, be it on the roads, on the waterways or at sea.
730	Considering that it is only today that we are dealing with a Commission proposal first made on 19 March 1998, even though Parliament responded relatively quickly, this time lag is a little too long.
731	This is not just the fault of the Commission, but I believe that we need to take action more quickly so as to achieve harmonisation in this area as well.
732	My second point has already been mentioned: it concerns the minimum standards.
733	In principle, I believe that in many cases where transport is concerned we should be working towards increased flexibility and country-specific rules.
734	However, when it comes to safety, I am rather sceptical because safety in Sweden, for example, is in principle no different from safety in Germany, Italy or Austria.
735	I can live with these minimum standards, but I would ask the Commission to monitor the situation very carefully.
736	Should flexibility of this kind result in there being inadequate rules in some countries then we should work towards greater harmonisation.
737	My third point has also been mentioned already.
738	As you know, like Mr Rack, I come from a transit country, where this issue plays a particularly important role.
739	We do not want to make the conditions of competition worse for some countries unilaterally and improve them for countries such as Austria or other transit countries.
740	But I believe that we should do all we can to keep the transport of dangerous goods to a minimum, in all countries, whether they are transit countries or not.
741	Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Koch, on his magnificent work and his positive cooperation with the Commission with regard to improving the texts and presenting this report and this proposal; in the end there is only one amendment on the requirements for the aptitude examination for safety advisers in the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway.
742	We understand that it is important that the two institutions - Parliament and Commission - cooperate and work together and that the current cooperation with the Committee on Regional Policy, and in particular the transport group, is magnificent.
743	The common position includes practically all of the amendments accepted by the Commission and harmonises the minimum examination requirements for safety advisers and, at second reading, we can accept the amendment on the proposed date, which is much more realistic than the one originally suggested by the Commission, bearing in mind that we have now spent several years debating this question.
744	Very briefly, I would like to thank the various Members for their interventions and to tell you that safety is one of the Commission' s priorities in the field of transport.
745	As Mr Simpson has said very correctly, this is a process which we can never take for granted or regard as having come to an end.
746	The process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day.
747	In this regard, I would also like to refer very briefly to the problems of the tunnels, which Messrs Rack and Swoboda have referred to, which, in the case of Austria, is doubtless a very sensitive issue, and great effort should be made to improve their safety.
748	In one of the worst accidents to have occurred recently, the goods being transported were not dangerous in themselves.
749	Margarine and a few kilos of paint which, in principle, do not present risks, led to a genuine disaster.
750	Therefore, we will have to see how the requirements guaranteeing the maximum degree of safety can be further improved.
751	Finally, I would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport.
752	This week we will be holding a debate here on the safety of sea transport, in light of the Erika disaster, and in the course of this year we will have to discuss our objectives in terms of the safety of air transport.
753	But I would like to say that safety is a priority objective for the Commission.
754	As I will say in the debate on the Erika disaster, we do not wait until there is a disaster to deal with the question of safety, but we work on it even when there are no such circumstances, which simply serve to demonstrate the urgency for an effective response to this type of problem.
755	I would like to repeat my appreciation to all the speakers and especially to the rapporteur, Mr Koch.
756	The debate is closed.
757	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
758	Transport of dangerous goods by road
759	The next item is the report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road [COM(1999) 158 - C5-0004/1999 - 1999/0083(COD)].
760	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road, which entered into force on 1 January 1997, contains a number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of time, the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific standardisation work by the CEN, that is the European Committee for Standardisation.
761	Delays in the CEN' s work are now making it difficult to apply this very directive.
762	In particular, annexes cannot be adapted to take account of technical and industrial developments.
763	I regret this since we are having to take action because others have not done their job.
764	In this respect, I accept this proposal to amend Directive 94/55/EC which has been tabled for discussion today.
765	Should the European Union fail to take action, then Member States would be obliged to amend their national legislation for a very brief period, until the CEN completes its work, which would cause unnecessary cost and uncertainty.
766	The amendment to the directive on today's agenda does not therefore affect the existing harmonisation of the transport of dangerous goods in the Community.
767	It merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing deadlines, deletes provisions which are no longer applicable, and lays down the procedures for a) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and b) enacting less stringent national regulations, in particular for the transport of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas.
768	The amendment to the directive is consequently in full accordance with the principle of subsidiarity; the Member States obtain more powers.
769	The Commission decides whether the Member States may impose certain rules of their own.
770	In so doing, it is supported by a committee of experts on the transport of dangerous goods under the regulatory procedure.
771	The procedures for the exercise of these implementing powers conferred on the Commission were laid down afresh in the Council Decision of June 1999.
772	The proposal to be discussed today, to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road, dates from May 1999, however, and could not therefore take account of the latest comitology procedure.
773	Two of the amendments tabled and adopted unanimously by the committee relate precisely to this amended comitology procedure.
774	We would like to ensure that there is a reference to this as early as the recitals and that the period within which the Council has to make a decision - which is not clearly worded - is set at a maximum of three months.
775	In addition, the need for greater transparency has been pointed out.
776	A further amendment allows the Member States to impose more stringent requirements, in particular for vacuum tanks, if work is done or goods are transported as a priority in temperatures well below -20ºC.
777	This is in the special interest of northern European regions.
778	A final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and tankers put into service between 1 January 1997 and the entry into force of this directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and maintained in accordance with it.
779	I do realise that this is only a small step towards increased transport safety, but I would ask you to endorse this report.
780	Mr President, colleagues, a happy new year and millennium to you all.
781	I am speaking for the first time in this plenary part-session, so this is quite exciting for me, a little like first love, although that did last longer than two minutes.
782	I would like to briefly comment on the Commission' s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road.
783	It is good that this directive should be established now, as, otherwise, Member States would have to amend their national acts for a very short time, a period of transition, which would again mean unnecessary costs and which would once more increase concern with regard to EU bureaucracy.
784	The Commission' s proposal, however, does not take account of all the facts, such as the cold climate that prevails in the northern regions.
785	Consequently, I have tabled some amendments to Mr Koch' s intrinsically excellent report, which have been adopted by our committee.
786	My amendments concern the frost-resistance ratings for tankers carrying these dangerous goods.
787	According to the Commission' s proposal -20ºC would have been sufficient.
788	On the shores of the Mediterranean, it is hard to imagine that in Lapland temperatures can fall considerably lower than that.
789	There is support for the EU in Lapland also, so let us remember them.
790	I have thus proposed that the frost rating be lowered to -40ºC.
791	This would be necessary to keep safety standards at the level they were in northern regions previously.
792	I hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow' s vote.
793	Mr President, with your permission I should like to begin by expressing my admiration for the way in which you executed the quick changeover of the chairmanship just now during the debate.
794	I thought that it was quite superb.
795	On the subject at hand, I think that the people of Europe must be able to be confident that the goods - however dangerous they are - which are transported on Europe's roads, railways, and so on are as safe as possible.
796	This directive is a contribution to this.
797	What we are doing today is essentially a nuisance.
798	The rapporteur, Mr Koch, to whom we express our thanks for the work which he has done on this, has already pointed out that basically everything could have been somewhat more advanced had it not been for the inactivity on the part of the CEN, which has been very dilatory in drawing up and adapting the directive.
799	That is why we can only hope - and we should resolve all of this this week - that, in 2001, we will finally have Community regulations for the transport of dangerous goods by road so that we have a degree of legal certainty here and also so that our roads are a good deal safer.
800	Mr President, the report we are discussing here does not, in itself, entail any major changes. Most of the proposed amendments are of a purely technical nature.
801	It is nonetheless worth emphasising that, each time we make this type of decision, it is good from a broad environmental perspective and it is beneficial because it creates better prior conditions for exploiting the possibilities of the internal market.
802	Very large quantities of dangerous goods are transported around the EU, both on roads and railways and by sea.
803	This makes it necessary to have proper rules governing transport of this kind. In area after area, we are now obtaining common minimum regulations for the Member States.
804	This is extraordinarily positive, and there is cause to thank the rapporteur, Mr Koch, for the work he has put in on this issue.
805	This is also important where the prerequisites for the internal market are concerned.
806	If we are to get a common transport market genuinely up and running, it is important that we should not only have regulations but that these regulations should also, as far as possible, apply to every country.
807	I should like to conclude by commenting on a third matter which is also of significance, namely an amendment tabled by Member of Parliament, Mr Ari Vatanen.
808	In many ways, the prerequisites differ from one Member State to another.
809	By approving this amendment, we take account of the fact that it can be very cold in the northern parts of the European Union.
810	This makes it necessary to also take account of the ways in which materials and packaging are affected by cold of this kind.
811	It is good that, in establishing the present regulations, we can also be flexible. I hope that the Commission is able to accept the present amendment.
812	Mr President, I would like to thank not only Mr Koch, but also the Vice-President of the Commission for the clear and unambiguous way in which they have declared their support for safety in the transport sector and acknowledged it as a priority.
813	The reason Mr Koch produced his sound report was because the work in the CEN and within the United Nations Economic Commission was proceeding none too expeditiously.
814	I would like to ask the Vice-President if she is in a position to tell us today what the state of play is with regard to the efforts towards harmonisation being made by these two organisations, and whether the EU is in a position to hasten these harmonisation efforts, in accordance with principles that are as simple as possible.
815	For one thing is clear: even if we come to an excellent arrangement within the European Union, traffic does not stop at our borders, it goes beyond them.
816	Hence there is certainly every reason to introduce more far-reaching regional provisions.
817	If the Commissioner is unable to do so today then would she be prepared to inform the committee in writing of how matters stand and what stage negotiations between the CEN and the Economic Commission are at?
818	Mr President, I would once again like to congratulate Mr Koch on his magnificent work on this other report, which in a way supplements the debate which we held in October on rail transport.
819	We all regret that the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) has not been able, in the required time, to carry out the amendment of the provisions necessary for the required harmonisation within the European Union.
820	This debate and the amendment of the directive currently in force allow us to incorporate differentiating elements which demonstrate the diversity of this Europe of ours.
821	A moment ago, Mr Vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures, not of 20 degrees below zero, but of 40 degrees below zero.
822	Of course, we accept that amendment - it is absolutely right - and I believe that we should incorporate specific circumstances which demonstrate the climatic diversity of the European Union, which sometimes take the form of specifics and of concrete requirements for the establishment of standards and characterisations of a technical nature.
823	I would like to say, with regard to Mr Swoboda' s comments on the activity of the CEN, that we are urging them to speed up their work as much as possible because it would be terrible if, despite the new deadline, we were to find ourselves after a year and a bit with the same difficulties because their work has not been concluded.
824	Lastly, Mr President, the basic problems justifying this amendment of the directive have been pointed out. We have referred to the delay by the CEN, the amendment of certain provisions, the consistency between the text of the directive and the content of the annexes and the need to for it to be more specific.
825	The Commission accepts all of the contributions of the parliamentary committee and the rapporteur, Mr Koch, which are contained in the various amendments, specifically four.
826	We therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed.
827	The debate is closed.
828	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
829	Structural Funds - Cohesion Fund coordination
830	The next item is the report (A5-0108/1999) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission in the field of the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Fund: guidelines for programmes in the period 2000-2006 [COM(1999)344 - C5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127(COS)].
831	Mr President, it is particularly pleasing for me to make my first speech in the European Parliament on what is regarded as the most important issue within that part of the United Kingdom that I represent in this Parliament, namely Wales.
832	A major part of Wales, as you know, has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural Funds programme.
833	It is quite clear that many people within Wales are looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face.
834	We have seen poverty growing in Wales; and growing still further since 1997.
835	We have seen the gap between rich and poor widen.
836	We are looking, therefore, within the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the Principality.
837	What is, however, deeply damaging for us is the belief that in some way the granting of Structural Funds assistance is something that has been, in a sense, a success of the government.
838	It is sadly only a recognition of the very great difficulties that Wales faces.
839	That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe the Commission must have at the forefront.
840	We look to the Commission to deal with points in relation to additionality.
841	We are dissatisfied with the fact that those figures seem to have been in some way hidden within UK figures.
842	We look to the Commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects.
843	We look to it to challenge the UK Government, to ensure that the private sector, which surely must be providing the major impetus for Structural Funds expenditure, is involved in the planning stage.
844	Finally, we ask that the Commission ensures that Structural Fund monies are spent in a way which is transparent.
845	Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not transparent.
846	This is one area in which I believe the Commission can be a very great friend to Wales.
847	Mr President, our committee views these issues very differently and, to start, I will speak from the point of view of research.
848	We see it as a very positive sign that, in her own conclusions, the rapporteur has taken account of our committee' s proposal that the Cohesion Fund countries should broaden the research infrastructure by locating universities and colleges in such a way that they would serve those who live in undeveloped regions better than now and make it easier for educated people to remain in their home districts.
849	This will be possible with action on the part of governments, and such decentralisation of higher education will be an unquestionably useful policy in evening out development.
850	Another matter we would like to address, specifically from the point of view of industrial policy, is that we would have liked the Commission to pay more attention to the effects of services, electronic commerce and the growing use of the Internet, when they were planning the coordination of Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds.
851	Poverty and wealth used to depend more on means of livelihood.
852	The rich areas were those where there were jobs in industry, but today those areas might have become a burden, and they may well be poor, meaning we also have to invest in new sectors of industry such as electronic production, as I might call it, and the production of services, because they are the industries of the future.
853	In my opinion the committee drafting the report has not taken sufficient account of this, so on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I would draw the Commission' s attention to this issue.
854	Finally, as the committee representing energy, we would have liked the issue of support for renewable energy resources from Cohesion and Regional Development funds to have been emphasised still more, thus, through a process of coordination, increasing the use of renewables so that the scant funding resources in the energy programme might have been compensated by means of these more substantial sums.
855	Mr President, I would very much like to thank Mrs Schroedter for the work she has done on this and to explain to colleagues that I am speaking for my colleague, Mrs Flautre, who followed this for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but who is unfortunately ill.
856	I would like to draw people's attention to Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but not accepted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
857	These amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion.
858	In the past, this Parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment.
859	These amendments also fit in with this Parliament's view that social exclusion is a serious issue needing constructive action.
860	We hope that those considering rejection of these amendments have very powerful reasons to offer to both Parliament and their citizens who are seeking employment.
861	In her report, Mrs Flautre also drew attention to an area where coordination is sorely lacking, yet desperately needed.
862	The Commission proposals refer to the four pillars of employment strategy and the five fields of action of the European Social Fund.
863	But the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted, as the idea of linking Social Fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme.
864	It could be said that the omission gives the impression that the Commission too has no idea how to provide maximum coordination between European Social Fund assistance, which is subject to review after three and a half years, and the Member States' annual national plans for employment.
865	We hope that the Commission can reassure us that this was an oversight which is now being dealt with constructively.
866	Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal presented by the Commission, in accordance with its mandate, is a reasonable starting point for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
867	I would like to point out, however, that this starting point indicates to us the challenges which face us: maintaining a population in rural areas, given the changes taking place in all types of economic activity owing to agriculture' s increasing lack of importance amongst the various sources of income for rural society.
868	This, as well as the deficiencies in the networks of infrastructures and services and a generally very low level of employment, which furthermore is seasonal and lacks diversity, exacerbates the exodus from rural areas.
869	The consequences do not inspire hope.
870	It is the young people who are disappearing, who are getting an education and finding work outside of the rural areas, all of which has an unfavourable effect on those areas.
871	This lack of infrastructure is also an obstacle to the establishment of companies and the creation of jobs.
872	We have to remember that rural areas represent almost four fifths of the territory of the European Union.
873	Agriculture only provides 5.5% of employment in the Union.
874	Furthermore, three quarters of our farm workers are part-time and require supplements to their incomes.
875	For this reason, one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the European Union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas, outside of the agricultural sector, in sectors such as rural tourism, sport, culture, heritage conservation, the conversion of businesses, new technologies, services, etc. However, even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive, it is still essential, not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns, but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land, in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment.
876	Therefore, we support the establishment of an agricultural and rural development policy which is consistent with the objectives we have set. We want rural areas, at the dawn of the 21st century, to be competitive and multi-functional, both with regard to agriculture and with regard to opening up to the diversity of non-agricultural activities.
877	It is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium, and to bear in mind the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the five fundamental issues, which have been only partly taken up by the Committee on Transport, Regional Policy and Tourism in its points 16 and 17.
878	In conclusion, I would ask the Commission to take these five points into account when establishing the conclusions on the four pillars because I believe that, for the European Union, maintaining the population in rural areas must be one of the priority objectives.
879	Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Schroedter, the rapporteur, for her work.
880	I think that this work has been carried out extremely well.
881	I would also like to thank her for her willingness to enter into dialogue with the other political groups when compromise formulas have needed to be reached in the face of this avalanche of amendments - and perhaps there are more of them than we expected - but which genuinely reflect the importance of the report we are now discussing.
882	We feel that it is important that the Commission takes account of the conclusions adopted by this Parliament, at least in spirit, because at this stage, it might seem as though what we are doing here is a useless exercise, and nothing but hot air.
883	The truth of the matter though is that we believe - and this is also shown in the way the conclusions have been drafted - that the Commission must take account of what is adopted by this Parliament, particularly in the face of an interim revision of these directives.
884	In our amendments, we have stated the importance of the necessary synergies being produced between the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and Community initiatives, so that their application should be reflected, in the best and most profitable way, by the gradual elimination of disparities between regions and by the creation of jobs which are, when all is said and done, the two central purposes of the funds we are discussing.
885	In order to achieve a more rapid and efficient boost for attaining these objectives, we think that those who generate employment, the real entrepreneurs and those who really guarantee new sources of employment, that is, businesspeople, must participate in this initiative.
886	Small and medium-sized businesses, above all, need to take part in the distribution of these funds.
887	If they do not, if businesspeople feel marginalised, if entrepreneurs cannot take part, not only in managing but also in receiving these funds, we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly.
888	Also, in order to attain our objectives, to overcome the disparities between regions and to seek out sources of employment, it is crucial to give our complete support to new technologies, to transport and communications networks and to renewable energies.
889	All of this must be done - I repeat - with the participation of private business, which, by uniting its efforts with those of public administrations, but complementing them, never obstructing or excluding them, will lead to the creation of wealth in society and of jobs.
890	Mr President, it is incumbent upon me to remind my colleague, Mr Evans, of why Wales actually achieved Objective 1 status.
891	It was because of the discredited policies of his own Conservative Party.
892	Let me also remind him that when his party leader, Mr Hague, was Secretary of State for Wales, he broke every rule in the book on additionality which led to a stern letter from Commissioner Wulf-Mathies regarding regulatory requirements.
893	I can tell you that the British Government is aware of its regulatory requirements on Objective 1 additionality.
894	I suggest Mr Evans goes back and reads the regulation.
895	My Group has made extensive amendments to both reports up for debate today.
896	I want to focus our minds on the essential role of the guidelines.
897	The objective is to provide a framework and tool to support and enhance economic regeneration, to get the most effective use of resources in the widest partnership and to put these regions back on the road to recovery and sustainable development so that eventually they come off the regional life-support machine.
898	It is important to identify the skills and potential of our regions in the hi-tech sector.
899	It is particularly important in the light of reports in the media that Europe is rapidly losing ground to the US in the hi-tech growth industries of the future.
900	The operation of the previous round of programmes is also very instructive in telling us what guidelines should not be about.
901	They should not be about creating additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape.
902	They should not be about shifting priorities and policies halfway through project development, resulting in inevitable delays and underspends, particularly in the light of the new budgetary requirement.
903	The implementation and operation of the guidelines cannot be left to the personal interpretation of one or other desk officer, either in the Commission or in the civil service.
904	There must be an internal coherence in the Commission directorate, while respecting the specific local and regional aspects of Commission programmes.
905	The conclusion is that we must make the case for guidelines to be broad, indicative and flexible to assist our programme managers and fund-users and to get the maximum potential out of our new fields of regeneration.
906	If we can inject a spirit of entrepreneurial activity into our poor and structurally weak regions we will eventually get them back onto the road of attracting substantial investor confidence, which will be the key to future success.
907	This is how we are going to judge the success of these guidelines: whether EU regional policy with a good, solid, enabling guideline, can open up new opportunities and allow our poor and structurally weak regions to play their full part in contributing to the growth and prosperity of the EU.
908	Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report.
909	She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report.
910	The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines.
911	We are badly behind now in this matter.
912	Hopefully, the stands Parliament has taken will help, however, in the mid-term appraisal of the programmes and in their practical implementation.
913	For the time, the report grew too large when it was being debated. It contained details and issues that had already been raised in previous reports.
914	At this stage it is more important to concentrate on assessing how we can use this process to steer Union regional policy, bearing in mind that the aim is to reduce regional inequality.
915	Our Group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of Member States and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes. It is especially important to get SMEs involved in the planning and implementation of programmes.
916	Our Group also considers it important to take greater account of remote and peripheral areas and wishes to increase interaction between towns and rural areas.
917	We oppose the excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken root in the drafting and implementation of programmes.
918	Projects implemented with support from the Union have had their effect watered down all too often by slow decision making and complicated administrative processes.
919	Funds have often been granted for projects which have had no lasting benefit for the area concerned. Projects have to be carried out more efficiently, more flexibly and they have to be made more productive.
920	While the report was being prepared, it was interesting to discuss the Union' s regional policy in general.
921	For us new members, it was the first time, and this was a very interesting process.
922	This report is very good and our Group supports it.
923	Mr President, Commissioner, as proof that this Parliament has not yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution, the excellent report by a fellow member of my Group, Elisabeth Schroedter, has not been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development for the period 2000-2006 for Objective 1 regions have been sitting in the Commission' s offices for several months.
924	Bearing this in mind, this House should, in any event, demand that, before the Community support frameworks for the period in question are approved, they be studied and submitted for debate in this Parliament, specifically in light of the guidelines that we have presented today. This is because we think that they are particularly able to create employment in the poorest and least-developed regions and we would thus contribute to reversing the harmful trends towards inequality that exist in European society and to the move towards a fairer Europe.
925	Mr President, we should not forget that the main, strategic objective of the Structural and Cohesion Funds and of their coordination is to achieve economic and social cohesion.
926	We are obliged to participate in drafting directives and also in assessing their results.
927	We are obliged to do so because we are the representatives of the citizens in a Europe of Citizens and not just in a Europe of States and of Regions.
928	We feel that the Funds are a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving economic and social cohesion.
929	We might be mistaken in using the gross domestic product per inhabitant as the sole indicator.
930	Some speakers have already mentioned unemployment and the fall in population.
931	We will have to study several indicators, which will enable us to see the current state of regional societies that are in a worse situation than others, and how they are evolving.
932	It is clear from some of the reports that have been presented to Parliament' s plenary sitting today that Europe' s 25 most prosperous regions enjoy a level of unemployment which is five times lower than in the 25 least prosperous regions.
933	This fact means that the European Parliament, the Commissioner and the Commission must act decisively and strategically.
934	I agree that the European Parliament did not have the opportunity - or that it was not given the opportunity, as we had reached the end of the parliamentary term - to discuss the directives.
935	I do not think, however, that this report has come too late.
936	We need to consider it together, so that the new Objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development, which have been drafted before the directives come into force, can be submitted for revision and proper assessment.
937	We all agree that we should ask that, halfway through these programmes, when the assessment of the directives is made, Parliament should be given an equally influential role on the grounds that we are the citizens' representatives.
938	Our citizens cannot accept that the European Union takes decisions in a way that is, at least on the face of it, bureaucratic.
939	They need to see the political dimension working, to see that officials accept their responsibilities and that there is communication with the citizens.
940	This is what we are today asking the Commissioner for.
941	I would like to think that, given his previous experience as a regional President, he will agree to propose indicators, and a strategy, which will favour economic and social cohesion and not just productivity.
942	Mr President, I support the main proposals of the report concerning the administration of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for the period 2000-2006 and the main recommendations of the report which include the following: there must always be an integrated approach to the spending of EU Structural and Cohesion Funds.
943	This means that there must be a comprehensive partnership between local authorities and national governments with regard to how these funds are to be spent.
944	Member States are urged to attach greater importance to integrated strategies for revitalising relations between towns and rural areas. This latter point is of particular importance.
945	While urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers.
946	We do not want to build a Europe of cities alone.
947	The Structural Funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries, mainly through the upgrading of roads, water treatment and related transport networks.
948	This process will continue in accordance with the financial spending guidelines laid down by the EU leaders at their Berlin Summit last year, which were supported by Parliament at its last May plenary part-session.
949	Key EU programmes between 1989, 1993, 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and Objective 1 regions within Europe.
950	The key now is to consolidate and make permanent the progress made to date.
951	This would ensure that the peripheral countries and the ultraperipheral regions, the poorer regions in Europe, are in a position to operate successfully within the new euro currency zone, as well as within an ever-expanding internal market where the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital exist.
952	In conclusion, while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, we should remember that the European Social Fund has played a very important role in helping the less well-off in our society.
953	The Social Fund has certainly improved our third-level institutions, financed our post-leaving certificate programmes and put in place comprehensive schemes to help combat youth and long-term unemployment, assist early school leavers and promote higher standards of adult literacy.
954	Mr President, on numerous occasions in the past I have disagreed with the rapporteur on her approach to regional policy issues. This time, however, I actually agree with her.
955	Whether or not this will encourage her to continue along the same path, I cannot say. Nevertheless, I would like to commend her on her work.
956	The second point I would like to make is that we would have preferred it if the guidelines had been added to the regulation in the form of an annex, as we and Mrs McCarthy, as rapporteurs for the general regulation, had asked.
957	Unfortunately, this did not happen. Mr Bernié is not to blame for this as it was a matter for the previous committee.
958	I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament' s position.
959	Thirdly, we broadly agree on the general guidelines provided they do not deviate from the comments we have made so far.
960	They are particularly beneficial to the Member States, and I would particularly like to draw your attention to the emphasis the Commission has placed on the issues of sustainable development, job creation and, more particularly, on equal opportunities and transport issues.
961	Personally, I at least am totally in favour of the guidelines.
962	As an islander, however, I would like to express my dissatisfaction at the lack of recognition of island development.
963	This is not the first time that this issue has not been given the consideration it deserves. This has been an ongoing concern for the five years that I have been a Member of this Parliament, and I have raised the issue time and time again.
964	Commissioner, we shall continue to raise the issue, as Article 158, paragraph 1, of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for an integrated policy for islands.
965	Therefore, the Commission should address the issue once and for all.
966	The time has come to implement the programmes, and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly.
967	As for us in Parliament, I would like to remind you of the code of conduct between the Commission and Parliament which was signed in May.
968	I am absolutely certain that this code will be observed and that Parliament will keep abreast of all the developments and details concerning the implementation of the programmes.
969	Mr President, Commissioner, in this minute and a half I should like, first of all, to congratulate Mrs Schroedter.
970	I know many have already done so, but she has indeed earned our praise for being particularly open and attentive to proposals from all sides, and I think it is this openness which has given her report the quality we see today.
971	I share the regrets she expressed, namely that Parliament has become involved rather late in the day as regards these guidelines, since by now the procedure for negotiations with the states is so far advanced that I cannot see this report having any sort of immediate effect, which in my view is a pity.
972	Consequently, I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003, and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003.
973	In brief, I would like to say that we are entering the period when we are called upon to manage the programming for 2000-2006, which must be no routine period for the good reason that we have two major challenges to face.
974	The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies.
975	Subsidies are not enough to ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking.
976	We must ask ourselves a fundamental question: how can we ensure that Union policy interfaces with the subsidiary national policies for regional development?
977	The second challenge is that of enlargement which will, of course, have a considerable impact, both in budgetary and geographical terms.
978	These are two areas of action which I invite the Commissioner to set up and in which I would ask him to involve us.
979	Finally, in this time of natural disasters, I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds.
980	As you know, it is up to each State to redistribute part of the total appropriation.
981	Europe should not be completely absent, as the states tend to want.
982	Public opinion and the press nowadays accuse us of being unavailable to give a response, even though we are going to be funding a large proportion of the national operations.
983	I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear.
984	I also think we should ensure, or ask Member States to ensure, that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents.
985	Mr President, the priority given to financial and monetary criteria reinforces the increase in inequalities of every shape and form.
986	As far as French planning experts are concerned, for example, the most probable scenario today is that of the entrenchment of regional disparities within each country.
987	Well, the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this process.
988	Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator.
989	Its implementation would certainly require extending the scope of redistribution instruments such as the Structural Funds.
990	What we are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax, which would make it possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level.
991	The Commission, however, though bound to issue guidelines, does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner.
992	The report put forward today re-establishes its place in the political sphere.
993	It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development.
994	This is what persuades us to vote in favour of it.
995	Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
996	Over the coming years, faced with the challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement, Europe will, more than ever before, require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise its economy.
997	To this end, Europe as a whole, and each Member State individually, will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities, including the Structural Funds.
998	For this to be possible, what we need from the European Commission are not just good intentions, but clearer guidelines and a firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member States.
999	For example, in recent years Italy has had problems in utilising the Structural Funds, mainly because of excessive bureaucracy, insufficient information and a lack of involvement of economic and social operators at local level.
1000	Firstly, we need to make the best possible use of consultation as a means of ensuring proper coordination and participation by all local and regional operators in decision-making, precisely so that imbalances and inequalities can be avoided. Secondly, a genuine effort is required to make administrative procedures simpler and more transparent, since, they are all too often unnecessarily lengthy and complicated, to the point of hindering access to the Funds.
1001	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the failure of the Commission' s communication to focus on territorial pacts and, especially, methods of combating unemployment among women and young people, is cause for serious concern.
1002	Mr President, like my colleague Mr Evans, it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this House on this very important issue, especially since I represent a part of the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has hitherto benefited from Objective 2 funding in particular.
1003	But the report before the House tonight is a prime example of how, if we are not very careful, we can produce very grandiose-sounding ideas that lack the substance to make them relevant to the people who benefit directly from them.
1004	The report itself is well-intentioned but, as so often when we deal with these issues, lacks clarity of purpose and a sound basis for operability.
1005	That is why I and my Group are proposing three key amendments and additions to the text, not to take anything away from the proposal, but to make it more relevant to those whom it is there to guide.
1006	I would like to explain our thinking here.
1007	Firstly, we are concerned with the proper use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
1008	Past experience dictates that, as the elected representatives of the European taxpayer, we should, and indeed must, demand financial probity and transparency in the disbursement and auditing of this money, hence our amendments and additions relate to achieving what are known as "value for money" indicators in the grant-giving process.
1009	Next, we all too often see vast sums of money being spent on projects whose outcomes will necessarily be unclear at the start of the programme period.
1010	But at the mid-way point or end of that period there is no effective way of terminating the project if it has not proved successful.
1011	Our additions therefore call for the provision of practical enforceable exit strategies so that not only can we have the requisite insurance against ongoing costs which are often loaded onto the taxpayer, but we also avoid the well-rehearsed syndrome of throwing good money after bad.
1012	Finally, we call for a change to the balance and method by which the funds are disbursed.
1013	There should be greater involvement of the private sector which will introduce financial reality as a perspective within the funding equation.
1014	Also the type of project funded needs to be shifted away from small-scale revenue-based projects, which are hard to monitor, towards capital schemes where, in the majority of cases, the benefits are there for all to see.
1015	That way the much-trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the European Parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform.
1016	If these changes to the report are supported by the House today, I believe that they will move us forward in the next phase of achieving the historic objectives which the funds were set up to bring about, namely to assist - in a financially sustainable manner - those deprived areas of the European Union which need to be brought up to a decent standard of living, not by giving a hand-out but by giving a "hand-up".
1017	I urge the House to support these changes.
1018	Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report, which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work.
1019	The European Union' s structural and cohesion policies are, without doubt, essential tools for creating the right conditions with a view to tackling and reducing the levels of economic and social disparity between the regions.
1020	Despite the steps taken thus far, these levels are still very high, and are unacceptably high as regards unemployment.
1021	These policy objectives can only be achieved through their careful coordination and organisation on the basis of well thought-out and sensible guidelines.
1022	Let us not forget that when these policies are effective, they also benefit European citizens by directly improving their quality of life.
1023	Let us not forget either that greater consideration should be given to the islands and remote regions of the European Union because their geographical location is a hindrance to their economic and social development, unless of course the Commission is intending to build bridges or underwater tunnels linking them to the European mainland.
1024	In closing, I would like to point out that the structural policies as a whole require greater flexibility so that they can adapt to changing circumstances and thereby respond to the new challenges and opportunities of the new millennium, for which we all hope for the best.
1025	Mr President, Mrs Schroedter' s report undoubtedly contains several important observations, and I would like to congratulate her on that.
1026	However, I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community' s regional policy.
1027	Quite briefly, structural policy does not ease the problem of mass unemployment in any way, rather it aggravates it.
1028	The agricultural economy and agricultural regions have been irreparably damaged by the existing regional policy, which has had dramatic consequences on employment levels in rural areas and on the living conditions of farmers, particularly in the South.
1029	Regional disparities are becoming much more marked within the Member States.
1030	If we examine the data presented in the sixth periodic report, we will see that the last decade has witnessed a proliferation of regional disparities.
1031	Little consideration, if any at all, has been given to the great problems facing the island regions of the Union whose shortcomings as regards infrastrucutres structure, transport, communication and energy has resulted in their gradual depopulation.
1032	The Union' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy.
1033	A large section of the Union' s population has strongly condemned this policy for being dangerous and anti grass-roots.
1034	Unfortunately, the new guidelines seem to be heading in the same direction and there are no signs that things will change once they have been implemented.
1035	Mr President, I would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the Union.
1036	The first is the fundamental, central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion.
1037	We are concerned to hear news that the Commission is taking this objective less seriously.
1038	We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union' s fundamental objectives.
1039	Secondly, I agree with what has already been said on the issue of the islands and I would also like to bring the outermost regions to your attention.
1040	In future, we would like to see greater ambition applied to the subject of the outermost regions such as, in my country, the islands of the Azores and Madeira.
1041	I would like to ask if the Commission is able to enlighten us on the reasons for the delay in the Commission' s report on the outermost regions, which has been long awaited by Parliament?
1042	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made.
1043	Mr President, Commissioner, the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes.
1044	However, contrary to their claim to provide guidance, the Commission' s proposals in this respect are reminiscent to a far greater extent of a catalogue of possible measures within the scope of the various policy areas.
1045	Nonetheless, their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities.
1046	I agree with the rapporteur that unfortunately the Commission document contains too little in the way of recommendations to the Member States on simplifying administration, and I support the calls for negotiations to concentrate on promoting a favourable climate for labour-intensive, small and medium-sized enterprises, on setting clear objectives for alternative sources of financing including provisions for risk capital and private financing, and on start-up help for companies including new information technologies and investment in innovative fields.
1047	I am particularly in favour of a proposed amendment tabled by my Group to paragraph 10, to ensure an appropriate level of private sector involvement in the planning and implementation of the projects.
1048	I should be very grateful, Mrs Schroedter, if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations.
1049	Mr President, Commissioner, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we upheld unanimously the criterion that it was of strategic importance and a matter of priority to support the interventions of the Structural and Cohesion Funds which are working for a better opportunity for jobs for the unemployed and for equality between men and women.
1050	Unfortunately, the excellent Schroedter report did not take account of this criterion, despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the Berend report - how, in fact, these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from Europe' s most highly-developed regions.
1051	They are growing, but only in terms of GDP.
1052	They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.
1053	Commissioner, please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority, because this is our citizens' greatest problem.
1054	Please take account, in strategic terms, in the revision and in the allocation of reserves, of employment needs, because this, fundamentally is what the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds require.
1055	Mr President, it is important that the guidelines head in the right direction and that they guarantee the effectiveness of the programmes of the crucial seven-year period 2000-2006 so as to ensure sustainable development and job creation, particularly for women and young people, and ensure a balance is struck between economic and social policy and regional policy.
1056	It is particularly important to address those serious issues concerning urban areas, employment in rural areas, aid to agricultural regions and equal development opportunities for the islands of the European Union and for the Greek islands which, of course, comprise half of the islands of the Union, as stipulated in Article 158 of the Treaty.
1057	Cohesion policy needs to be strengthened further because a Europe which totally disregards the standard of living in its regions can neither be reliable or viable.
1058	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my great interest in listening carefully to the comments, occasional criticisms and suggestions that some of you have just made in your speeches with reference to Mrs Schroedter' s report.
1059	Everyone understands, Mrs Schroedter, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons and the time limits involved - and I shall come back to this point presently - and whatever the time limits or delays, since we are discussing this report right now, as the representative for the Commission, I consider that the report has been issued at an opportune moment with regard to the guidelines for 2000-2006 as it is now that we are starting the new regional programming.
1060	Mrs Schroedter, you quite rightly pointed out that while it is chiefly up to the Member States and the regions to define their own priorities in development matters, European Union cofinancing of the programmes requires, and is the justification for, a situation where Community priorities as debated and approved in this House should also be taken into account in order to promote this Community aspect of economic and social cohesion which many of you forcefully pointed out.
1061	So, ladies and gentlemen, I should like in a moment to return to the role and structure of the guidelines before mentioning the principal comments and criticisms that you, Mrs Schroedter, and the various Members of this House, have made.
1062	Regarding the role and structure of these guidelines, Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs Schroedter and Mrs McCarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of Structural Fund Objectives 1, 2 and 3 as well as their links with the Cohesion Funds.
1063	This means putting forward the Commission' s priorities, based on past experience in implementing the programmes, as well as current Community policies relating to structural operations.
1064	The objective is that these priorities should contribute to the better use, to the optimum and efficient use, as some of you have wished, of Community involvement, including, Mr Bradbourn, using, if necessary, the performance reserve which is specifically intended to encourage the optimum and efficient use of European public monies.
1065	When I speak of optimum utilisation, I am referring both to the national and regional levels. And so, Mr Seppänen, I shall also mention at this point, speaking of the national level, the link with the Cohesion Fund.
1066	This is the purpose of these guidelines.
1067	Regarding their content, as you know, ladies and gentlemen of this House, they are focused on three strategic priorities that your rapporteur pointed out very clearly but, at the same time, very passionately, as I understood her presentation just now.
1068	The first priority is to improve the competitiveness of regional economies in order to create, in all sectors, but especially in the private sector, as Mr Berend said, the maximum number of serious, worthwhile and permanent jobs, the competitiveness of regional economies, all regional economies, and in particular, Mr Evans, that of Wales, but not only of Wales.
1069	And, because there are a number of you who have just pointed out what appeared to you to be an omission, let me also add the regional economies of the European regions handicapped by their distance from the centre, be they remote regions, island regions or, of course, the most remote regions which are, naturally, the most distant.
1070	Perhaps I may inform Mr Ribeiro e Castro, who asked me about this, that, as I wrote to the presidents of each of these most remote regions, the Commission did indeed request an extension of several weeks before publishing its anticipated report.
1071	Concerning the most remote regions, it was only quite belatedly that we received the memorandums from the various governments, but this is not necessarily an excuse, just an explanation.
1072	We must therefore take these memorandums into consideration and produce an extremely thorough piece of work.
1073	I myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 November and, within the College, we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions. I would thank you for your understanding in this matter.
1074	So that is the first priority, the competitiveness of regional economies.
1075	The second priority, which several of you have stressed, Mr Puerta in particular, but there were others, not that I am mentioning them in any order of priority, is the strengthening of social cohesion and of employment, particularly by raising the profile of human resources far more so than in the past.
1076	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a European Union where the disparities between countries are observed to be less great, proving the effectiveness and worth of the Cohesion Fund, but where, at the same time, in relation to unemployment - as you wrote, Mrs Schroedter - an increasing gap exists between the 15 or 20 richest regions and the 15 or 20 poorest or most disadvantaged regions. This is a situation which is, as it should be, unjustifiable and intolerable.
1077	As far as I am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of Europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which I find unacceptable and I have every intention, as far as possible, with your support, of dedicating all the appropriations for which I am responsible to this improved social, human and territorial cohesion, particularly in order to prevent what I once called in this House a two-speed Europe, a Europe of wealthy districts but, at the same time, a Europe of impoverished areas.
1078	In fact, the guidelines take two horizontal principles into account. The first is rural development, and let me say, Mrs Schroedter, that I am including in rural development the matter of sustainable transport, an issue I have been involved in personally for a long time.
1079	I particularly remember the time when I was Minister for the Environment in my own country. The second principle is that of equal opportunities, particularly for men and women, as well as the European strategy for employment and the context of economic and monetary Union.
1080	Finally, and in order to respond to the concerns which you have expressed in this House, particularly yourself, Mrs Schroedter, in these guidelines we recall the importance and the definition of integrated strategies, for development or redevelopment, which, of all the priorities, offer the maximum opportunity to synergy, to the measures undertaken and to the establishment of a decentralised partnership.
1081	You expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership, yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines.
1082	However, I do wish to mention - since you have asked me to do so - that, as far as I am concerned, this partnership - and I spent long enough as a regional administrator within my own country to be able to say this most sincerely - is a tool, one used to involve local brainpower, be it in the public sector, in the form of elected representatives, the social and educational sectors, associations, or in the private sector; a decentralised partnership, and let me mention in this connection, in response to Mrs Angelilli, the territorial pacts, which are one of the means available to this decentralised partnership.
1083	These are the reasons why the guidelines are presented according to thematic priorities, since they must be taken into consideration, under each of the objectives, to different extents in accordance with the specific situations of each of the Member States and regions.
1084	I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made, ladies and gentlemen, and firstly on procedure.
1085	It is true that consultation with Parliament has only come about at a late date.
1086	Let me remind you that when the guidelines were adopted by the Commission, in the form of a draft in February 1999, in line with a new procedure intended to make it easier to present comments on this text, my predecessor, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, presented them to Parliament immediately.
1087	Due to the elections to the European Parliament taking place around this time, however, Parliament was not able to undertake its examination of these guidelines until after the text had been definitively adopted, in July 1999.
1088	Here in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, among you, I wish to assure you that in the negotiations for the programmes which are only just beginning - Mr Hatzidakis asked me a question about this - as far as Member States are concerned, your observations will certainly be taken into consideration.
1089	And let me assure you, furthermore, that when the Commission adopts the guidelines with what we call the mid-term review in mind, in line with the regulations, then the point of view of this House, as expressed in this report, will also be taken into account.
1090	Now to the form.
1091	On the subject of the role of the guidelines, Mrs Schroedter, you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives, often very precise ones, should be provided.
1092	I shall not list them all, but they include implementing intersectoral policies, increasing efficiency in the use of public funds, assisting the various partners in drawing up regional or national programming together, etc. The Commission takes note of these, but several of these guidelines or these questions are related more to other documents, such as the Guide to the Reform of the Structural Funds or the methodological working document.
1093	Drawing to a close, I should like to focus on a number of challenges which you reiterated, Mrs Schroedter.
1094	I am thinking, for example, of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations.
1095	This claim that your report makes must be seen in the context of last spring' s negotiations.
1096	The Commission kept to the actual text of Article 10 of the Structural Funds regulations, which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide Member States with broad, indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed Community policies.
1097	I actually quoted the text itself, in quotation marks.
1098	Moreover, the guidelines may not substitute for the programming or the ex ante assessments which must be the tool used to specify priorities and the effectiveness of these programmes.
1099	You then mentioned, Mrs Schroedter, the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development, pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration.
1100	I find the opposite the case.
1101	I wish to confirm the great importance the Commission attaches, and shall attach, to the urban dimension of our cohesion policy.
1102	Indeed, I had occasion recently to say as much to all the ministers responsible for urban policy at a meeting in Tampere.
1103	As regards rural development, which a number of you brought up, particularly Mrs Redondo Jiménez, the guidelines are in line with the twofold objective mentioned by your rapporteur: a strong agricultural sector linked with increased competitiveness in rural areas, but also protection of the environment and Europe' s rural heritage.
1104	It must, however, be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds, whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority.
1105	And indeed, on the subject of the balance of rural society, let us not forget that there is also the new rural development policy cofinanced by the EAGGF Guarantee Section, aimed at promoting reform in European agriculture and supporting the multifunctional aspect of agriculture.
1106	At this stage, I would simply like to say that I would like to see it integrated into the programming for Objective 2 rural areas, in the way that the EAGGF Guidance Section is for Objective 1 regions.
1107	In any event, I appreciate the vigilance of your Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in this matter.
1108	Before concluding, I should like to tell Mr Savary that we are going to have a special debate tomorrow on the consequences of the storms which have struck France, Austria and Germany, in particular, in the last few weeks, and at the same time we shall once again be discussing, together with my fellow Commissioner, Mrs de Palacio, what lessons we might draw in the matter of the oil spillage which has also affected the coasts of France.
1109	I shall therefore reserve the right, if you permit, sir, to give you my own opinion, which, to a great extent, matches your own recommendation regarding what action we might take to combat the oil spillage using Objective 2.
1110	I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France, Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow.
1111	We shall then have an appropriate tool for working, particularly in the majority of the regions affected by the storms.
1112	Indeed, this is my reason for paying a personal visit the day after tomorrow to two of the French departments which have been severely disabled by the storms.
1113	In conclusion, with thanks for your understanding, Mr President, I should like to thank you, Mrs Schroedter, for the quality of your work and that of the committee, and to tell you that I am very pleased, apart from a few differences in our assessments of the role of the guidelines.
1114	We have discussed this and I have attempted to clarify my point of view. I am very pleased with the level of support offered by your House to the Commission in establishing these guidelines, which have been submitted to the Member States for information when establishing their own programmes.
1115	This can only reinforce the concept based on a number of elements of good practice drawn from our experience of the current 1994-1999 programmes.
1116	I feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions, at this time when programming for the period 2000-2006 is being undertaken, good joint working practice, which is, Mr Hatzidakis, backed up by something I am very attentive to: observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions.
1117	The debate is closed.
1118	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
1119	Social and economic situation and development of the regions of the Union
1120	The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union [SEC(99)0066 - C5-0120/99 - 1999/2123(COS)].
1121	Mr President, Commissioner, this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report.
1122	I consider, however, that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in Europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and, unfortunately, this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches.
1123	The Commission report generally relativises this observation, particularly when it refers to the social and economic situation of some regions of the Union in which I have a special interest, by which I mean the French overseas departments and, more generally, the most remote regions.
1124	In this respect, I am pleased to see that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the Commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and, more specifically, to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
1125	Finally, in my view, this sixth periodic report presents interesting arguments from the viewpoint of a real project for the balanced sustainable development of Europe, particularly when it outlines the importance of relations between the central areas of Europe and its more remote regions.
1126	Even if the Commission is still reluctant to say so in too explicit a fashion, its periodic report demonstrates the urgent need to promote polycentric development of the Community area through the Union' s structural policies and within the scope of the approach initiated by the SEC.
1127	Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this Parliament agrees with the report that Mr Berend has just presented and congratulates the author, both on the quality of his conclusions and on his flexibility, which ensured that the different groups were able to incorporate amendments in committee.
1128	It must be remembered that, currently, the European Union' s overall competitiveness is, in general terms, 81% of that of the United States of America and that this figure will only improve if the figure for our competitive units, that is the regions, also improves. Furthermore, this is at a time when technological development, economic globalisation and our problems, which are enlargement and the single currency, demand that the regions, as well as businesses and individuals, make more of an effort to be competitive.
1129	The European Commission' s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions.
1130	I shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur, one positive and one negative.
1131	The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major, although not decisive, factor in reducing regional inequalities.
1132	The negative conclusion is that the great effort made has been more efficient in harmonising the European regions' GDP and productivity than in harmonising its levels of unemployment.
1133	It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation.
1134	This, Commissioner, is the first commandment for the coming period.
1135	Thus, Mr President, I ask my fellow Members to approve this report and I ask the Commission, as other speakers have done, to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006.
1136	Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it.
1137	The sixth periodical report gives a basis for assessing the implementation of the Union' s regional policy aims. The report shows that growth has been uneven, despite all our efforts.
1138	Very rapid growth is continuing in Central Europe. The strongest regional centres also continue to grow faster than the general European average, whereas many southern European and northern areas are developing considerably more slowly.
1139	We now require an in-depth analysis of why regional policy is not producing the desired result in all areas.
1140	Is the reason bureaucracy or is it because insufficient notice has been taken of interregional differences, long distances, climates that are too cold or too hot, sparse populations and austere conditions?
1141	How can the Union respond to the challenges of global development in a way that the less developed areas can remain a part of that development?
1142	It is also important to discover what the effects of Union enlargement will be on Structural Funds and the development of the Union' s more remote areas.
1143	The Member States must also bear in mind their responsibility.
1144	Some Member States have been in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and cut national regional funds when regional aid coming via the Union has been increased.
1145	This has chipped away at the results that regional policy has produced.
1146	In the future, we must also develop indicators so that measures can be targeted at the right time at the right place.
1147	For example, uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration.
1148	In this connection, too, weight has to be given to the decisive importance of SMEs as employers and forces behind regional development.
1149	It is absolutely essential that companies in areas developing more slowly adopt the latest technology and know-how.
1150	Our Group is in favour of adopting this report.
1151	Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union' s regional policy has, until now, not been able to interpret, in any significant way, the existing differences in our inhabitants' incomes.
1152	We have a serious situation in which in the European Union today, there is a genuine link between unemployment and poverty, as demonstrated by the very worrying fact that unemployment has reached, on average, 23.7% in the regions worst affected, regions which also happen to be poor areas, whilst in the 25 regions with the lowest unemployment, corresponding to the richer areas, unemployment stands at just 4%.
1153	Given this situation, the report approved by Parliament must highlight the need for measures that aim unequivocally to fight relative poverty and unemployment: measures such as the appropriate use of structural funds for these purposes, which are often misspent, with centralised state policies and the modernisation of telecommunication and communication systems, with the particular aim of integrating the least developed regions into the Trans-European rail Networks, which are due in 2007.
1154	There should also be measures that respect and develop the resources and capabilities of these countries' agriculture and fisheries, which are often harmed by the European Union' s own insensitive policies, as well as the promotion of active policies to create jobs, particularly for women and young people. Only through the decisive application of this kind of measure will we be able to overcome social and regional inequality, which is not the historical product of inherent defects but of marginalisation and economic policies which have had harmful effects.
1155	Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Berend' s report is precisely in line with the strategy determined by the European Commission inasmuch as the question of increasing competitiveness is brought right to the fore.
1156	The overarching objectives of the structural funds such as job creation, boosting equality of opportunity, increasing the sustainability of employment and development, are only mentioned in passing.
1157	This attitude appears to me to be unjustified. I would also ask that a great deal more emphasis be placed on these points in the seventh periodic report.
1158	This does not mean that I do not see the need for competitiveness, particularly as I myself am an entrepreneur in an Objective 1 Region, that is in Brandenburg in the Federal Republic of Germany, and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises.
1159	It is absolutely crucial that parallel temporary measures be introduced in the Objective 1 Regions, that is to say job creation measures, special programmes for supporting employment opportunities for women and initiatives to help people set up their own business.
1160	They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities.
1161	Supporting only the competitiveness of companies will never be able to compensate for the envisaged cohesion between economic and social development, simply because there is no basis for a self-supporting upturn in these Objective 1 Regions.
1162	After all, the knowledge that economic development alone does not help to combat unemployment substantiates the fact than an increase of at least 3% in gross domestic product is needed to create any additional jobs at all.
1163	Concentrating to the exclusion of all else on supply and demand-orientated economic policy is not the answer.
1164	And those that do pursue such a policy must invest in expansion for the most part and, to a lesser extent, in rationalisation.
1165	It is imperative for this to go hand in hand with a demand-orientated economic policy if we are to have any chance at all of improving the social situation in these areas.
1166	The situation varies to an enormous degree throughout the regions.
1167	In other words, what is needed is a number of accompanying measures if anything at all is to be accomplished there.
1168	For example, these would be measures for vocational training, for further education, for re-integrating people who have already been excluded from the production process, for the flexibilisation of working time and working time arrangements, in order to bring about a definite improvement in the integration of personal and social aspects and perhaps also to promote employment opportunities for women again.
1169	Mr President, my compliments to the rapporteur for his in-depth report.
1170	The key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the European Union.
1171	By stimulating a diversity of investments, the European Union is endeavouring to increase the GDP per capita and to boost employment.
1172	From the sixth periodic report on the regions, one can draw the hesitant conclusion that these incentives do not always have the desired effect.
1173	The efforts made in order to drive up the GDP per capita in Objective 1 regions do not always result in such an increase, not really a satisfying result over a period during which, certainly over the past couple of years, there has been economic growth.
1174	As indicated by the rapporteur, the effects of the structural measures, on the other hand, are minimal as far as employment is concerned.
1175	Some reservation about the effectiveness of Community aid is therefore called for.
1176	Also, the observation that the disparities between regions within Member States sometimes even become more pronounced raises serious questions.
1177	Mr President, it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities, especially in connection with boosting employment.
1178	It is, after all, they who have most knowledge about the regions which fall under their remit.
1179	By allowing them to develop tailor-made plans for the relevant regions and, if necessary, tying this in with financial aid, a higher return can be achieved.
1180	Surely this must be the ultimate goal.
1181	I am therefore in favour of the Commission delegating the practical details and implementation of measures to the Member States and regions.
1182	Following on from this, it is probably also more meaningful, with regard to the financial aid to regions, to give Member States more say anyway.
1183	By shifting the criteria from the regions to the Member States, we can avoid a great deal of problems later on.
1184	Finally, I would like to draw attention to the position of the Central and Eastern European countries.
1185	The report shows that, in general, they are a long way behind EU countries, especially in terms of GDP per capita.
1186	With the planned accession of a large number of these countries in the foreseeable future, it is a matter of urgency to review the current structural policy.
1187	I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later.
1188	Mr President, Commissioner, following close scrutiny of this report one cannot escape the conclusion that it was possible to fulfil the stated objective of the structural policy only in part.
1189	For example, whilst the disparities between the regions have increased rather than decreased, there has been a certain amount of convergence between the Member States themselves in this respect.
1190	Equally, unemployment levels in the worst affected regions barely fell at all, indeed they rose in some cases.
1191	I wonder why it is that the structural funds are not employed more efficiently.
1192	Even the accumulation of money from the cohesion funds and the structural funds has failed to have the desired effect in all regions and countries.
1193	Since it is the declared aim of all politicians throughout Europe to reduce unemployment, then one must pose the critical question as to whether the policy employed is the right one or whether it would not be more appropriate to boost the competitiveness of the regions by appropriate measures such as increased support for research and development, improvements in infrastructure and raising the level of training.
1194	Genuine structural reforms and a competition-friendly taxation policy are the cornerstones of a successful economic base.
1195	If we do not wish to stand accused of pursuing a cost-intensive structural policy that does nothing to improve the unemployment situation in the long term, then the measures drawn up so far must be analysed.
1196	We will only be able to say that the structural policy of the Union has been a success when we manage to create a sufficient number of jobs and when there is a significant reduction in the unemployment rate.
1197	Mr President, Commissioner, my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report, because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of Europe will judge that we have been successful in our work.
1198	This issue, which has an impact on their everyday life, is a key issue as regards EU credibility.
1199	It has to be conceded that the EU has already aided, I would say quite magnificently, the development of poor countries.
1200	I remember what Portugal and Greece used to be like when I drove through those countries for the first time twenty-five years ago.
1201	In this connection, French speakers would speak of a "coup de chapeau" : in other words, I take my hat off to the EU.
1202	The EU really deserves such a gesture, but differences between rich and poor areas within countries are still too great.
1203	What is the result?
1204	People react by voting with their feet and go where they can earn a crust.
1205	Consequently, we have to build schools, hospitals, and the whole infrastructure for the same people in the same country many times over.
1206	This is very costly and it also causes very great social problems.
1207	Most people, however, would like to live in the area in which they were born and raised, if they were given the chance to, in other words, if there was work there.
1208	We must give them this opportunity.
1209	This is a moral obligation the EU and all of us have.
1210	The solution, as I see it, lies in clearly encouraging entrepreneurship.
1211	By entrepreneurship I do not simply mean the ownership of business, but creating will.
1212	I mean the attitude where a person wants to get on in life, whether he or she is an employee, the owner of a business or an official.
1213	What is a fair society?
1214	One in which someone from a modest background can get on in life so as to make life a little easier for his or her children.
1215	In this way, positive development of the regions is also possible, because people will start business and will work if they are given the chance.
1216	Finally, I would say that in this matter we should learn a lesson from America, where hard work is still in fashion and success is an indication of ability and not the object of envy, as it often is here in Europe.
1217	Mr President, Commissioner, as my time is limited, I shall get straight to the point.
1218	Firstly, let me make a statement of fact: the fruits of growth are not distributed equitably within the Union.
1219	The most remote regions, still hard hit by catastrophic unemployment rates, offer one example of this.
1220	In Reunion, for example, the rate is 37%.
1221	This is not a situation related to the economic climate, however; rather it is a structural problem, created by our remoteness, our insularity, in short, our own specific personality.
1222	The principle of specific, exceptional treatment was envisaged in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to deal with such cases.
1223	It only remains to put this principle into practice.
1224	The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January, then February, and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism.
1225	I therefore appeal formally to the Council and the Commission.
1226	As regards taxation, state aid, the Structural Funds and defending our traditional products, practical measures characterised by daring and ambition must be planned as a matter of urgency.
1227	If these do not materialise, then, unfortunately, convergence and cohesion will remain no more than words for us, and it is to be feared that the structural policy undertaken in our regions, despite the size of the amounts committed, will end in failure.
1228	Thank you very much, Commissioner.
1229	The debate is closed.
1230	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
1231	(The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.)
1232	Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
1233	The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
1234	Are there any comments?
1235	Mr President, I respond to an invitation yesterday afternoon by the President of the House to speak on behalf of my group on a matter referred to in the Minutes.
1236	I refer to item 11 on the order of business.
1237	Firstly, I believe the issue raised by the President of the Socialist Group yesterday about the reinstatement of the debate with the President of the Commission on the five-year strategic programme was sufficiently important for other speakers who wished to comment briefly on that matter to have been accommodated.
1238	I wish to express that view even if I respectfully disagreed and voted against the proposal of the President of the Socialist Group.
1239	The second point I would like to make - and which I would have wished to make yesterday before the vote - is that this Parliament, as other speakers remarked yesterday, can only really have an effect if it works in close cooperation and synergy with the European Commission.
1240	We should also have the humility to recognise that, if we wanted to have a strategic debate accompanied not just by a presentation and elucidation by the President of the Commission, but also by a five-year programme, we should have the mechanisms in place more than just a week in advance of the debate in this House, so as to be able to discuss and convey in due time to the Commission what our wishes were.
1241	There is one basic lesson I would like us to learn from this.
1242	When there are major set-piece debates scheduled between this House and the European Commission in the future, we should clear all of our lines on what are our mutual expectations at least one full working month in advance.
1243	There needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this House and then between this House and the Commission.
1244	We should not find ourselves late in the day in the unfortunate position where the one or other institution creates an unnecessary fracture in institutional relationships.
1245	Looking at some of the press reports of last Friday, I believe that the Commission and its President exercised commendable self-restraint in the way they commented publicly.
1246	That is something for which I have a deep appreciation.
1247	I hope that we will learn the lessons and not repeat this unnecessary exercise which I believe was founded on a misapprehension as to what was expected rather than any bad faith on the part of either of the two institutions.
1248	It should not be dramatised into something more than that.
1249	Thank you very much, Mr Cox.
1250	I understand what you are saying.
1251	We have taken note of this.
1252	Mr President, concerning item 11 of the Minutes on the order of business, we agreed yesterday to have the Bourlanges report on today's agenda.
1253	However, it was withdrawn from the Committee on Budgets last night without being discussed or voted on.
1254	It therefore needs to be withdrawn from today's agenda.
1255	Mr Wynn, that makes sense.
1256	The report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda.
1257	Mr President, regarding Mrs Lynne's comments yesterday about health and safety in this building, I presume she was talking about the drains because there is a dreadful smell of drains on the fifth floor in the Tower.
1258	This needs to be looked into because it is clearly an indication that something is seriously wrong.
1259	I do not want to drag up the issue of this building endlessly, but this is a serious problem.
1260	Mrs Ahern, we have taken note of this.
1261	I would ask you to bring this specific case, which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor, to the attention of the Quaestors, who are, in fact, responsible for the matter.
1262	We will also pass this on to our services, however.
1263	Thank you very much.
1264	(The Minutes were approved)
1265	Reform of European competition policy
1266	The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
1267	A5-0069/1999 by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty [COM(1999) 101 - C5-0105/1999 - 1999/2108(COS)];
1268	A5-0078/1999 by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European Commission' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy 1998 [SEK(1999) 743 - C5-0121/1999 - 1999/2124(COS)];
1269	A5-0087/1999 by Mr Jonckheer, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the seventh survey on state aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors. [COM(1999) 148 - C5-0107/1999 - 1999/2110(COS)] (Report 1995-1997);
1270	A5-0073/1999 by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No. 2496/96/ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry (Steel Aid Code). [COM(1999) 94 - C5-0104/1999 - 1999/2107(COS)].
1271	Mr President, Commissioner, today we are engaged in an important debate about the European Union' s competition policy.
1272	We are debating a highly controversial modernisation proposal for European monopolies law, that is Mr von Wogau' s report, and it is far more controversial than the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs may have given us reason to believe.
1273	I want to make it quite clear that in this specific case I personally consider the Commission' s proposal to be wrong and feel that it remains to be seen as to whether we are truly justified in using the term "modernisation" to describe the content of Articles 81 and 82 of the White Paper, or whether in this case it would be more appropriate to use the expression "retrograde step" .
1274	However, we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998, and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter.
1275	But, of course, both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this White Paper.
1276	It is all about the need for modernisation and the future viability of the European competition policy.
1277	On reading both Commission documents, one learns that 1998 was the year in which the modernisation proposals introduced in 1997 were pursued and even partially completed, which is something our own ongoing parliamentary work has taught us.
1278	Allow me to make two fundamental comments at this juncture. As the competent authority, the Commission, with its logically consistent approach, has again and again served the cause of freedom of competition, not always to the delight of the Member States or enterprises concerned.
1279	It should continue along this path.
1280	But, Commissioner, none of this is to become less complicated in future - one only has to think of the challenges posed by the enlargement of the Union, the deepening of the internal market, technological progress, globalisation.
1281	Indeed, it is not just about modernisation of Community law, more than anything it is about transparency of decisions taken in individual cases, about the possibility of decisions actually being able to implement decisions, for the European competition policy will be dependent on the population' s acceptance, together with that of the political bodies and enterprises concerned.
1282	Only, without transparency there will be no acceptance, indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency.
1283	The competition report 1998 is not a bad foundation for this but, in fact, there is nothing that could not be further improved upon.
1284	Our motion will give you a great deal of food for thought, Commissioner, but there is one point that I would just like to go into now. Transparency and accountability belong together.
1285	I do not wish to call the distribution of competences between the Commission and Parliament into question.
1286	The Commission is the executive and Parliament ought to have no desire whatsoever to take on this role, for the sake of its own independence; but Parliament is a supervisory body, and what better forum could there be in which to expound the reasoning behind one' s decisions than a democratically-elected Parliament, indeed an ongoing parliamentary discussion?
1287	Here too we should continue along the path we have chosen, strengthening and intensifying it.
1288	There is one thing I would like to make quite clear though. Parliament is a legislative body, but the fact that we have no more than the right of consultation in matters of competition law, of all things, is truly scandalous.
1289	Therefore, I would urge the Council and the Intergovernmental Conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area.
1290	I expect the Commission to exploit every available opportunity for parliamentary cooperation and to involve Parliament in doubtful cases, even given the Treaty status quo.
1291	I also expect the Commission to be pro-active in supporting us in our call for codecision in legislative procedures.
1292	This will be a good test as to whether there is reasonable cooperation between the two institutions.
1293	With all due respect for the principle of competition, competition is not, however, an end in itself.
1294	Competition is an instrument and does not always produce ideal solutions.
1295	At the end of the day, one of the fundamental tenets of economic theory is that the market is failing in many respects and anyone who takes issue with this is nothing more than an ideologue.
1296	Competition should bring about balance in supply and demand and should provide for the optimum distribution of economic resources and facts.
1297	But optimum efficiency does not necessarily come about of its own accord.
1298	Framework conditions are indispensable when it comes to preventing abuses, monopolies law being one example.
1299	But on the whole, this only serves to prevent abuses; framework conditions alone cannot achieve socially legitimate goals in isolation.
1300	Competition yes, restrictions in state aid where necessary and where possible.
1301	However, since state aid forms the lion' s share of the competition report 1998 I would still like, regardless of Mr Jonckheer' s report, to say one more thing about it. It is certainly possible, indeed it must be feasible for state aid to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises involved in research and development for the purpose of educating them in regional and environmental policy.
1302	Indeed it must be permissible for state aid to be provided for such purposes, provided it does not lead to unacceptable distortion of competition.
1303	This is precisely the area where it is even more important than it is in monopolies and mergers law for decisions to be comprehensible.
1304	It is not just that we should pillory state aid; rather our approach must be one of drawing distinctions and we must assess the different types of state aid in accordance with the extent to which they help to achieve the above-mentioned objectives.
1305	My last comment was intended not so much for the Commission as for the Members of the Group of the European People' s Party.
1306	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I have the opportunity to propose to you today is an opinion on the Commission' s Annual Report on the state aid in force within the European Union and for which the Community is authorised under Articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaties.
1307	The Commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors, according to various typologies, such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued.
1308	Let me refer you to the explanatory statement for the quantitative aspects of the report and simply mention at this point that the annual level of state aid, on average, for the period under review, is in the order of EUR 95 billion, corresponding to a reduction in the order of 13 % in relation to the period 1993-1995, a reduction which is essentially due to a reduction in aid in the Federal Republic of Germany.
1309	To put it plainly, the level of state aid declared, roughly speaking, is generally stable during the period under discussion and comes to approximately 1.2% of Community GDP or more or less the equivalent, coincidentally, of the Community budget for one year.
1310	This being the case, there are considerable disparities between states, which may be measured in various ways, such as, for example, as a percentage of added value and per wage earner.
1311	I think it is also interesting to add state aid and Community aid, which may be assimilated in some way into state aid.
1312	This clearly shows that it is the four countries which benefit from the Cohesion Fund, among other things, which come at the top of the list.
1313	This being the case, let me now come to the proposals made in the report.
1314	We note, first of all, that the committee considers the data, as presented in the Commission' s annual report, to be in too aggregated a form to enable an in-depth evaluation of state aid policy which is simultaneously legitimate, sensitive to national interests and extensive in terms of compliance with the rules of competition, pursuant to the actual terms of the Treaty.
1315	The Commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the Member States.
1316	It is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided, and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect.
1317	It is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example, has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid, accessible via the Internet.
1318	Having better, more detailed information available, particularly with regard to the objectives pursued and the results recorded, must make it possible for the European Commission to itself proceed or to commission in a regular manner studies of the social and economic evaluation of national and regional state aid policies.
1319	And insofar as such studies already exist, to publish more openly its own comments with regard to the objectives of the Treaties, which are not only to ensure the competitivity of the European economy, but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
1320	By stressing, primarily, the quality of the information provided, our debate in committee, and hence the report which it is my honour to present to you, avoided a simplistic response in the form of an a priori statement that the level of state aid was, in absolute terms, either too high or not high enough.
1321	Most committee members have sought rather to find a balance between, on the one hand, the need to see that both states and businesses comply with the competition rules and, on the other hand, acknowledgement of the value of such aid with a view to contributing to the objectives of the Treaty, particularly, as I have said already, as regards sustainable development, research and development and economic and social cohesion.
1322	This being the case, various amendments to the rapporteur' s initial draft report were adopted in committee, particularly highlighting the need for effective reimbursement of aid found to be illegal as well as the establishment of a league table of results.
1323	Seven amendments have been retabled for this plenary sitting.
1324	Most of them are an expression of the political differences among ourselves regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of state aid, in view of the inadequacies, acknowledged or not, of private investment alone, the market failures or inadequacies of the market.
1325	There is in particular one amendment, let me point out, concerning the energy sector, which, in my capacity as rapporteur, I see as particularly important.
1326	I should like to conclude this presentation, Commissioner, by stressing two things: firstly, a concern of the members of the committee and, secondly, a demand of our committee.
1327	The concern involves the pre-accession process for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in terms of competition policy and state aid.
1328	This is undoubtedly a complex issue, and one where we should like to see the Commission informing us of the latest development in the matter, particularly in terms of the capacity of the economies involved in the accession process to comply with competition rules and, as far as state aid is concerned, the need, in all probability, to have specific rules on state aid used to assist restructuring of their sectors.
1329	And finally, in conclusion, our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the European Parliament in the matters we are discussing, competition policy and state aid, in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
1330	As you know, Commissioner, our report argues that the codecision procedure should apply in the case of basic legislation on state aid.
1331	Mr President, Commissioner, my contribution to today' s debate concerns the steel aid code, that is the state aid in Europe granted in accordance with this code and which was assessed by the Commission.
1332	There were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the Commission submitted its own report on these.
1333	The ECSC Treaty is due to expire shortly.
1334	Hence, what we must focus on today is the question as to how state aid is to be managed in future.
1335	The European Commission' s decisions, which feature in the report, are welcomed by the European Parliament, as is the decision to ask for the money back in specific cases, thus applying Article 88 of the ECSC Treaty.
1336	The competitiveness of the European steel industry also forms the subject of the Commission' s most recent communication, which we have not yet debated in Parliament.
1337	As in other sectors, the general ban on state aid according to Article 87 (1) of the EC Treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry.
1338	According to this article, state aid is irreconcilable with the common market, in principle.
1339	Exemptions are only permitted in precisely defined cases.
1340	Under Article 88, the Commission is obliged to supervise state aid.
1341	In 1998, the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling EUR 540 million to the PREUSSAG in Germany.
1342	Furthermore, the Member States must give the Commission advance warning with regard to their intentions concerning state aid.
1343	The rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 December 1996.
1344	These stipulate that state aid can only be awarded to the steel industry in particular, precisely-defined cases i.e. those involving aid for research and development, aid for environmental protection, social security to ease the closure of steelworks and aid to help non-competitive enterprises cease trading altogether.
1345	In addition, there is a special provision of up to EUR 50 million for Greece.
1346	However, there were obviously problems with the practical administration of the steel aid code over the past few years that were not brought fully to bear in the report.
1347	As far as Parliament is concerned, it is important for us to waste no time in getting down to a debate on the regulations that are to succeed this state aid code once it has expired.
1348	There must be no watering-down of the existing principles underlying the steel aid code.
1349	No one wants an unimpeded subsidy competition in Europe.
1350	This would be to the considerable disadvantage of the internal market, regardless of the fact that the steel industry has undergone consolidation in the past few years.
1351	Consequently, Parliament believes it is necessary for the steel aid code to be amended in the light of the industry' s claims about unequal treatment, and for the Commission to provide the Council with follow-up regulations.
1352	We all know that so far the Council has dragged its feet with regard to follow-up regulations of this kind.
1353	The reason for this is that people are under the impression that once the steel aid code expires, they will be able to do their own thing again without the inconvenience of the European Commission' s supervision.
1354	We therefore demand that once the Treaty expires, steel aid must be regulated by a Council regulation according to Article 94, for that is the only way to create the necessary legal validity and clarity.
1355	This is the only way to enforce the strict ban on all aid not covered by the code.
1356	A Council regulation that is directly applicable law must also be observed by the regional governments.
1357	What we need to avoid doing in the future is compromising competition conditions and disturbing the balance in the markets.
1358	We also need to criticise the Commission' s practice of approving multiple aid packages for steel enterprises which in their view, do not fall within the categories of the code, even given the fact that the European Court of Justice approved this unequal treatment where certain individual decisions were concerned.
1359	The Commission will be called upon, in a report that has yet to be compiled for the year 1999, to give a detailed explanation of its active role in the elaboration of restructuring plans and approved exemptions, thus enabling a proper assessment of the overall situation to be made.
1360	Once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted the draft report unanimously with two abstentions, I would ask that we make full use of this opportunity, which we have ourselves created, in plenary sitting.
1361	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is not complete.
1362	Subsidies, monopolies and barriers to competition are still impeding markets and development alike.
1363	National governments provide subsidies and promise that this is the last time, but then it happens again.
1364	Subsidies distort allocations, both within and between countries.
1365	A successive phasing out of State aid is required, and more and more markets must be opened up to competition. This applies to those which have been turned into monopolies, both private and public.
1366	Public monopolies are, more often than not, phased out reluctantly.
1367	Increased competition and newly established organisations should be able to provide significant benefits in terms of welfare, including within the spheres of education, health care and social services.
1368	Public monopolies must be replaced by competitive structures.
1369	Europe must be modernised, made more entrepreneurial in spirit and adapted in such a way that it becomes a more competitive environment for consumers and companies.
1370	Effective competition pushes prices down and raises standards of living.
1371	It is precisely upon price levels that consumer policy has failed to focus sufficiently. In fact, competition policy and consumer policy belong together.
1372	The internal market is the basis for our work.
1373	Its legislation is to apply equally to all, to large and small countries alike.
1374	A systematic survey of the various national regulations is needed if barriers to competition are to be dismantled. The EU' s own regulations too may therefore need to be analysed.
1375	The new model now being tested by the Commission ought not to lead to a process of nationalisation pure and simple which would undermine the established competition policy.
1376	In order to be effective, it must be well anchored in the Member States' national authorities.
1377	In six months' time, it may be appropriate to carry out an analysis of the outcome and also to look more closely at the new situation' s effects upon the Commission' s role.
1378	The question of how best to make further progress has so far been solved through the idea of holding an inter-institutional congress which will open up an unbiased debate adopting a broad perspective and involving representatives of different interests.
1379	This will provide the opportunity to establish new principles or to return to the more radical changes which have been discussed. There will also be the opportunity to find new common solutions and to analyse amendments from the committee debate.
1380	The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition.
1381	Wrongly applied competition policy may cause losses in the legal sphere and interfere with the right of ownership, which is an important and basic principle we should stand up for.
1382	We have a quite exciting debate in front of us.
1383	A conference where the issues are properly debated will make it possible to straighten out misunderstandings, at the same time as perhaps improving upon certain points.
1384	Parliament and the Commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens.
1385	In fact, in my own constituency of Stockholm, we have many good local examples of increased supply and improved quality which have arisen precisely because of exposure to competition in areas which were previously total monopolies.
1386	We would encourage a continuation of the open debate which has been strengthened in the course of consideration of the reports by Mr von Wogau and Mr Rapkay.
1387	We hope that the legal points of view will also be accorded the importance which is only reasonable in a state based on the rule of law.
1388	Mr President, as a new Member I am pleased to be able to make my maiden speech here today, even though there has been a delay.
1389	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs Mr von Wogau, Mr Langen, Mr Rapkay and Mr Jonckheer, as well as the Commission, for their excellent cooperation.
1390	Competition is certainly fundamental to the social market economy and European competition policy is a success story; take the energy and telecommunications sectors, where there has been a demonstrable lowering of prices and improvement in quality of service.
1391	All this is to the good of the consumer.
1392	But we have now arrived at a point where we need to develop competition policy further.
1393	The Commission has put forward a new White Paper on this containing two key points: dropping the obligation to notify and retrodisplacement of law enforcement.
1394	Dropping the obligation to notify will mean less red tape and administration costs, at any rate.
1395	At the same time, this change of system will also lead to more onus being placed on the individual in the business world, of course.
1396	It will no longer simply be a case of submitting papers and having them approved; for one thing, each person will have to take responsibility themselves, and that is probably why there is unease about this in other quarters.
1397	However I believe that we should use this opportunity for Europe to set down a marker for less red tape.
1398	The second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement.
1399	If we are to create a culture of law in Europe, then there is no doubt that the law must be applied not only by the Commission, by central bodies, but also by national authorities, by national courts.
1400	We are not discussing the fact that although every EU law is only ever decided on centrally, it is precisely the adaptation phase where we will experience a lack of legal certainty.
1401	It will certainly be necessary to develop an instrument for this in the anticipated legislative procedure that will enable enterprises to enjoy legal certainty and to have recourse to the Commission in this matter.
1402	The way to a European monopolies commission must be kept clear, something that will certainly form a subject for future discussion.
1403	But we need there to be more transparency in the competition policy.
1404	Parliament must have more involvement and I also believe that if we were to introduce a register in which we could ascertain what state aid is being granted, then this would encourage the Member States to be more disciplined.
1405	However, when it comes to what the future holds for competition, there are two issues dear to my heart.
1406	One is subsidiarity.
1407	We all hold the view that competition is vital to the economy and requires there to be efficiency, and I believe we should also permit competition in the regions.
1408	Competition between the regions will certainly strengthen rather than weaken the European Union.
1409	I would cite, by way of example, the issue of job creation schemes, savings banks and regional banks, and Gütesiegel.
1410	Here, a region has, by its own efforts, created a means of marketing its own products.
1411	This own initiative must not be destroyed by European intervention.
1412	I believe there is also a need to raise the de minimis regulation.
1413	We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other.
1414	My second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy, although I am not going to talk about market failure just now.
1415	I have already referred to the regional and savings bank sector, but I would just like to focus on a matter one hears again and again in certain quarters.
1416	These days, someone who lives in an old people' s home is accommodated within the social field.
1417	However, I could also regard them as a customer, and I believe we should enter into rather clear and timely discussion on the ways in which the social field, that is evolved structures, stifle competition.
1418	Apart from that, I could refer to any customers, any sector, as customers, and thereby have a highly destructive effect on social fields.
1419	To conclude, I would just like to say something on the principle of subsidiarity. I believe it to be of vital importance that where Member States allow regions and local authorities to raise taxes, they should continue to be able to do so and not be subject to across- the-board regulation by Europe.
1420	Thank you very much, Mr Radwan.
1421	I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary-speak, inappropriately in your case, as a maiden speech.
1422	Mr President, Commissioner, I am speaking on behalf of my fellow Member, Robert Goebbels, who is unable to attend due to a political commitment.
1423	Within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market.
1424	A slim right-wing majority succeeded in removing any reference to market failures.
1425	Even if the majority in this House were to adhere to this ultraliberal idea of a supposedly perfect market, it would not make any difference to the real world.
1426	Economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources.
1427	While, since the dawn of time, the market has been the key forum for human interchange, it has never been perfect.
1428	The market favours the short term and immediate profits.
1429	On the market, the balance of power between supply and demand are generally to the detriment of the weakest parties, consumers and workers.
1430	In order to function, the market needs rules.
1431	The necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society.
1432	We European Socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose.
1433	The market is not an end in itself; it must help to improve the human condition.
1434	The European Union or individual States must not take over from economic operators, but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion.
1435	Finally, aid can enable restructuring, offer training, save jobs and thus know-how.
1436	The main objective of the Union' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid.
1437	This aid must be aligned with the objectives of the Union, particularly economic and social cohesion, sustainable development and research.
1438	The Commission must track down the illegal aid and the aid which actually hinders the internal market.
1439	It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid.
1440	The Internet is not a product of the market, but the result of research financed by the American army.
1441	The World Wide Web, which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society, was developed by CERN in Geneva, once again with public aid.
1442	The German Government' s intervention to save the Holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy.
1443	President Duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness, the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism.
1444	I did not hear Mr Duisenberg criticising the intervention of the American monetary authorities to save the hedge fund, LTCM.
1445	Wishing to save 60 000 jobs is, apparently, a sin against the market, but saving capital does not seem to present any problem for the advocates of the free market.
1446	Public monies are used in order to repair the damage caused by international speculation, as was the case in Mexico, Asia and Brazil.
1447	Human labour, on the other hand, is considered to be a simple factor in the equation.
1448	We Socialists reject the liberals' naïve optimism on this point.
1449	We want a true culture of competition in Europe.
1450	The state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the Commission must act as judge.
1451	Mr President, Commissioner, I want to begin by thanking Mr Rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation.
1452	I want to thank you, Commissioner Monti, for your outstanding cooperation and I want to tell you that, as we enter the new millennium, you have an especially important role. It is your job to tidy up the mess left by national governments.
1453	These may well have grand visions when it comes to competition policy, but their capacity to wreak havoc seems boundless.
1454	Let me mention the latest examples we have seen: Holzmann, a company which receives considerable aid from the German Government; sawmills in former East Germany; and, especially, aid to shipyards.
1455	These are three areas in which many Danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets.
1456	I want to say to Mr Poos that I very much agree with Mr Duisenberg that these examples show that some EU Member States are not in a position to restructure their economies and, to that extent, are helping to undermine the value of the euro.
1457	The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee, all concerning state aid.
1458	These are amendments which we believe will lead to transparency and openness, which is very important with a view to making the internal market work.
1459	I should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee for supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
1460	As I say, our amendments concern transparency, and I should like to emphasise the amendment which urges the Commission to propose uniform criteria and conditions for the type of state aids we consider to be lawful, specifically in order to ensure that companies can predict what their situation will be.
1461	Another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful.
1462	How do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back?
1463	At present, there are no common rules in this area, and we vigorously urge the Commission to make a point of harmonising the rules on repayment.
1464	This is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition.
1465	Finally, we propose keeping both a register, as mentioned by a number of my fellow MEPs, and also a scoreboard showing where the Member States at present stand with regard to state aid.
1466	You have shown us the way, Mr Monti, with the single market scoreboard.
1467	It was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid.
1468	I very much hope that you, Commissioner Monti, will support these amendments, and I look forward to your comments and to finding out where you stand on this matter.
1469	To conclude, I want to welcome the Commission' s XVIIIth Report on Competition Policy, on which, once again, a good deal of work has been done.
1470	But, as I have already mentioned, our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness.
1471	There is still a need to tighten up in the areas mentioned, and there is therefore good reason for continuing to work resolutely towards solving the problems concerning the lack of transparency and openness in the area of state aid.
1472	This is especially necessary in relation to the forthcoming enlargement of the Union, and I should like to thank Mr Jonckheer who, in his report, has considered very thoroughly the problems associated with enlargement and with ensuring that the applicant countries are able to meet our criteria, as well as with ensuring common conditions of competition.
1473	As Liberals and Greens, we clearly have different opinions on how the world should look, but we are well on the way to agreement as to our objectives, and we shall try to find reasonable solutions to our problems.
1474	Mr President, Commissioner, there are just two questions which must be answered.
1475	Are state aid to business or inter-company agreements legitimate in a market economy, and who must supervise these exceptions to the absolute rules of the market economy?
1476	Regarding the first point, we say quite clearly that, in order to take into consideration the requirements of sustainable development which the European Union has endorsed, it is essential that, in some instances, there is state aid to businesses, be it in the form of tax exemptions, special taxation or even direct aid.
1477	It is also legitimate for there to be inter-company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements, since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements.
1478	So our clear response is that, yes, such aid and such agreements are legitimate, but we say that every single one of these agreements must be expressly justified.
1479	The von Wogau report proposes referring supervision of the legitimacy of individual cases to national level.
1480	We feel this is relatively dangerous, but all the same we shall vote in favour of it because we recognise that the Commission cannot do everything.
1481	We demand that the greatest possible transparency should be in place and that greater powers of investigation be granted to the Commission in order to check the legitimacy of such exceptions after the fact.
1482	Mr President, once again we are debating the European Union' s competition policy.
1483	But let us stop to consider the circumstances in which this debate is taking place and the conclusions to which it should bring us.
1484	The overriding features of today' s economy are massive mergers and acquisitions involving huge companies with a market monopoly and the emergence of frighteningly powerful multinational groups.
1485	Should we not be discussing this issue?
1486	We need a competition policy which can and will introduce controls on the activities of these private-sector monopolies.
1487	Certain sectors of European industry, such as the shipbuilding industry, air transport and the steel industry, which have been hard hit by existing competition policy, have suffered tremendously.
1488	They have lost their status, and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant.
1489	When will we debate that?
1490	The scandalous concentration of power in sectors of strategic importance is giving speculative multinational groups economies the size of entire states, and Member States of the Union at that.
1491	And yet, we keep on weakening the public sector and we are ready and willing to tighten competition policy yet further by qualifying public procurement contracts placed with public-sector corporations as state aid.
1492	At the same time, unemployment is spiralling as a result of the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
1493	Workers are facing a massive attack on their employment and social rights.
1494	Consumers see their standard of living being eroded, poverty spreading and the public sector and production base in most countries in the Union being dismantled and dissolved in the name of unadulterated and catastrophic competition, in the name of the absolute market economy and the promotion of the monopolistic interests of big business.
1495	We consider the competition policy to be responsible for all this and are totally opposed to it.
1496	Mr President, Commissioner, in the course of this pivotal year, prior to the changeover to the single currency, the Commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment.
1497	The competition policy has, as far as these resources permitted, contributed to this event.
1498	For our part, we remain staunchly opposed to the single currency which, far from bringing us the advantages and flexibility of a shared currency, imprisons us in an artificial straitjacket, which has been imposed on the peoples of Europe.
1499	Having said that, governing means planning. It also means being responsible and, in this new context which has been forced upon us, competition law naturally has an essential role to play.
1500	In this area, the Commission has given priority to a number of routes of action: acting on the structure of markets by actively combating anti-competitive practices, by refocusing its departments' supervisory activities only upon matters with a manifest Community interest and by affirming its intention to modernise competition law.
1501	As regards state aid, it is essential to ensure that regulations are not made more complex, and the introduction of a public register, where all aid would be recorded, does not seem advisable to us since this onerous commitment would quite naturally run counter to the attempts to simplify bureaucratic constraints.
1502	Finally, on the subject of modernising the implementation of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty, we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction.
1503	The Commission is, in fact, retaining not only the power to take matters out of the jurisdiction of national authorities, but clearly obliging the national jurisdictions to avoid disputing the decisions of the Commission at all.
1504	National states would thus become the secular arm of the Commission regarding observance of the application of rules which they do not control.
1505	In conclusion, I would say that while some measures are heading in the right direction, we shall of course remain vigilant in order to prevent the snowballing of Federalism which, if it were realised, would be to the detriment of Europe and the sovereignty of the states.
1506	Mr President, Commissioner, we have a basically positive view of the Commission' s White Paper on competition, particularly as regards the abolition of the system of notification and authorisation, but we are also puzzled by several things.
1507	First of all, there is a risk that the decentralisation of powers, though necessary in many ways, will cause an abnormal increase in competition-related initiatives, and that some people will be tempted to use competition law, not as a means to be resorted to when all else fails, of ensuring the smooth and predictable functioning of the markets, but for the purposes of as an instrument for economic and industrial policy, planning and interference with the natural workings of the markets themselves, or even for protectionist purposes.
1508	In this respect, we should heed the words of von Eieck, and doubtless also those of the great Italian liberal Bruno Leoni, who warned precisely against the risks of an abnormal increase in anti-competition policies.
1509	State interference in the economy is, even today, still to blame for the most serious hindrances placed in the way of the market, competition and freedom of choice for European users and consumers.
1510	There is State aid for businesses - we have already discussed this, there is still a strong public presence in the economy - it is estimated that the Italian Treasury controls 15% of stock exchange capitalisation; governments and central banks place obstacles in the way of mergers and acquisitions; and there has been much talk in recent weeks about Vodafone' s bid for Mannesmann and the bailout of Holzmann.
1511	Finally, Commissioner, we cannot forget that large sections of the economy are still firmly in the hands of the state, ranging from state television, which is funded on a mandatory basis by the taxpayer, and the Post Office, to some compulsory insurance schemes, including health and social welfare systems, which are managed by inefficient state monopolies which leave no-one but the wealthy user with any other option.
1512	Commissioner, I am quite familiar with the constraints imposed by the Treaties, but I believe that, it must be emphasised once again that the European economy is finding it hard to compete with the American economy, especially because of insufficiently open markets and a lack of genuine competition.
1513	What is being done may well be very important, but it is still not sufficient.
1514	Mr President, we are holding a special debate: on competition policy and state aid, the government' s right and left hand, so to speak.
1515	Whilst the EMU criteria are forcing Member States to curb expenditure, the high level of state aid to industry has so far remained in place.
1516	This is understandable, because it is highly likely that Member States which start to cut back on state aid will cause companies to leave, with adverse effects on employment.
1517	But, at the same time, this is not understandable because bad management and non-viable jobs should not be funded by taxpayers' money.
1518	In principle, only horizontal regulations are permissible because they do not distort, or hardly distort, competition.
1519	The rapporteur' s Amendments Nos 6 and 7, therefore, deserve our support.
1520	Amendments Nos 1 and 5 make reference to the phenomenon of market failure because the market instrument in itself does not result in the ideal society.
1521	Vulnerable people find themselves hardest hit.
1522	Market forces must be employed in a sophisticated manner to do full justice to the responsibility of citizens and companies.
1523	If this comes to nothing, then the government has to step in.
1524	The Commission' s White Paper on modernising competition policy seems more like a discussion paper.
1525	The plea in favour of decentralisation in order to lighten the load within the Directorate-General on Competition is a kind gesture, but the way in which the Commission would like to carry this through would lead to the judiciary being stretched.
1526	This would be at the expense of legal certainty within industry.
1527	Does the pressure of work within the Commission really decrease when national judges are required to report to the Commission?
1528	What is the Council' s opinion on this and is the Commissioner prepared to completely reconsider these points?
1529	Mr President, a White Paper, by definition, is not something you can take or leave.
1530	It is there to generate reactions and the White Paper has certainly succeeded in doing that.
1531	It forms a sound basis for discussion and is to be welcomed in this sense.
1532	I understand where the authors are coming from and I share their views.
1533	I also assume that you, Commissioner, want to honour the reputation of, and the work put in by, your predecessors and that your offices will pursue the same objective.
1534	I cannot imagine the Commission taking initiatives in order to de-Europeanise or re-nationalise in a thorough manner, but I have my concerns and questions nevertheless.
1535	Firstly, these relate to the coherence of the policy' s application.
1536	In general, I am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market.
1537	The internal market needs a uniform competition policy, not only in terms of concept, but also in terms of application.
1538	It is true, there are some European regulations and interpretative statements on the way.
1539	The Commission is also said to have the right of evocation and can give guidelines to the national competition authorities.
1540	But I still wonder if we do not run the risk of ending up in a kind of Echternach procession where we will have to take one step back before we are able to take two steps forward.
1541	So, I would like to hear more about how the Commission will guarantee this uniform application in practice and whether you yourself consider the courses outlined from point one hundred onwards in the White Paper to be feasible.
1542	Secondly, I understand the worry of industry regarding legal certainty.
1543	Many dossiers are currently being filed with precisely this concern.
1544	This instrument will fall by the wayside in future.
1545	In the White Paper, you state that the Commission will still issue particular orders which can be used as guidelines, but what will your criteria be for granting such orders one day but not the next?
1546	Thirdly, I would like to know whether the Commission has looked into the effects its new approach will have on industrial strategy.
1547	I have particular concerns regarding the fate of SMEs which will lose part of their legal and financial protection, as is already the case, one has got to admit, within the new vertical group exemption for the distribution sector.
1548	Fourthly, I would like to be informed of why the Commission does not choose to apply the invalidity penalty in the case of evident infringements of the competition rules.
1549	Fifthly, with the pending enlargement, I wonder whether the candidate counties will be able to play our game.
1550	They are still in training, as it were.
1551	What guarantees do we have that they will grow into first-class players in the league of the internal market?
1552	Sixthly and lastly, I would remind you of a point that I have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions, namely the legal privilege of company lawyers.
1553	If the Commission implements the White Paper objectives, it seems to me that discrimination within the internal market and between external and internal legal advisers will become more pronounced and hence even less acceptable.
1554	Is the Commission considering taking any action to allow in-house lawyers in all Member States legal privilege?
1555	Commissioner, I am asking these questions as a defender of the internal market and I hope that, in this sense, we are all partners and that the discussion between these partners does not remain sterile but can bear fruit.
1556	Mr President, I would like, in beginning my speech regarding the White Paper, to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau.
1557	The fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very much in agreement with your report is clearly demonstrated by the fact that only one amendment has been presented during this procedure.
1558	We are, therefore, in agreement with the report, Commissioner, as well as the broad outlines of the White Paper.
1559	Since the Treaty entered into force, Community law on competition has been one of the tenets of Community policy.
1560	After almost forty years of being in force, these rules were beginning to show signs of exhaustion.
1561	For this reason, modernisation was essential.
1562	That modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons.
1563	Firstly, the authorisation system; secondly, decentralised application; thirdly, procedural rules; fourthly, judicial application; and fifthly and finally, excessive red tape.
1564	The system of individual approvals needed urgent reform, as was unanimously requested by specialised companies, academics and lawyers.
1565	I have not attended a single forum of specialists in competition law which has not requested a change to the system.
1566	A system, such as the current one, which is capable of making so few decisions, be they approvals or prohibitions, is something less than a valid system.
1567	National competition authorities were able to apply Articles 81(1) and 82 for some time.
1568	However, they could not apply Article 81(3), which, to a certain extent, prevented the coherent application of Article 81(1).
1569	You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice, both brought by German courts, which question the feasibility of applying 81(1) without being able to apply 81(3).
1570	A reform of this point was therefore also necessary.
1571	The procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in Regulation 1762.
1572	The voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous.
1573	The fact that it did not establish a genuine procedure, that it did not establish time limits, that it did not regulate access for interested parties to the files, or that the right to defence was not properly recognised, were factors which led to the unanimous demand for reform.
1574	The Court of Justice accepted some time ago that Community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the Member States and in 1994, the Commission published a communication on this subject.
1575	It was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach.
1576	One of the most frequent criticisms of Community competition law is its excessive red tape.
1577	As a consequence of the continental legal tradition, consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market.
1578	It was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis.
1579	The White Paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals.
1580	It is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report.
1581	Amongst these, firstly, is the fact that, despite trying to modernise Articles 81 and 82, Article 81 and not Article 82 carries exclusive weight. At the moment, with inter-company agreements and the privatisation of monopolies preserving dominant positions and even consolidating them, the combating of abusive conduct is becoming particularly important.
1582	Secondly, Regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation.
1583	For these reasons, we are going to vote in favour of the report.
1584	However, if some of the amendments are accepted, particularly those presented by the PPE-DE Group, we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document, lacking in rigour and, in that event, we would reconsider our support.
1585	Mr President, amongst the various issues being dealt with in this joint debate, I would like to comment on the one mentioned by Mr Berenguer, that is to say, the modernisation of competition policy, which is the subject of the Commission' s White Paper.
1586	Frankly, I believe that this modernisation has been satisfactory.
1587	Through his management, Commissioner Monti achieves good results, as did his predecessor and, clearly, he has established a guarantee which, in parallel with the creation and development of the European internal market, has been capable of establishing the corresponding corrective measures so that the market economy within the Union may work adequately, without the distortions which we economists know may arise when the market is enlarged, as has happened in the European Union since 1993.
1588	If it functions well, if we are satisfied, if the Commission has basically acted correctly, why the need for the modification?
1589	Various arguments have been presented in its favour.
1590	Mr Berenguer made a very accurate analysis, justifying the need and the relevant reforms for improving the dynamics of competition, but my concern is to ensure that the standards and criteria which will be applied through the corresponding administrations in the Member States, are truly identical in all regions.
1591	Because, if this is not the case, we will be faced with the paradox that the Commission itself will introduce elements of unfair competition into the functioning of the European internal market.
1592	In that event we would not have moved forward, but rather backwards, in the application of competition policy in the Union.
1593	Mr President, I would like firstly to express my appreciation to the Commission for the improvement represented by the XXVIIIth report on competition policy in the Union, when compared to previous reports.
1594	I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Rapkay, who has dissected this dense and comprehensive text in such a concise way.
1595	I would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the Basque Country, which I represent - a margin for action, by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity.
1596	Nevertheless, I cannot forget the numerous criticisms, both from Member States and from market operators, which, given the broad margin for manoeuvre and discretion enjoyed by the Commission in its evaluation of specific cases, maintain that they suffer from legal insecurity in the absence of clear rules allowing interested parties to anticipate the position of the authorities and thereby make feasible requests for aid aimed at the promotion of economic activity and employment, the planning of company mergers etc.
1597	The only guarantee has been to seek prior favourable approval, through individual cases, which will take more than six or eight months to resolve, an excessively long period, which simply leads to problems of a lack of flexibility, affecting the generation of wealth and employment.
1598	I therefore believe that something is missing and I suggest that we establish more regulations, lay down clear rules, which will benefit all of us: businesspeople, investors, workers and the citizens in general.
1599	Mr President, I would like to stress that, in an age of significant technological changes - just look at what is happening in the information technology sector and other sectors such as energy and transport - safeguarding competition will be of fundamental importance for our future.
1600	From the point of view of economic growth, and therefore of increasing employment and wealth, safeguarding a competition policy in the Member States is becoming a crucial factor, and one that is certainly very important for our future.
1601	This is why I give this report my full support.
1602	Recently, I have noticed that the Commission has been working hard to ensure that this principal is respected in a proper and effective manner, precisely in order to safeguard market flexibility, both for products and for services.
1603	I would emphasise that this is going to be extremely important for our future, for Europe' s economy, and, above all, for the protection of our wealth and technological development in Europe in general.
1604	Mr President, for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union.
1605	It therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined.
1606	The truth is that the single market is not yet complete.
1607	During my six months as a Member of this Parliament, I have become acutely aware of the determination of many Members to drive forward what is described as the European project.
1608	We daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper Europe.
1609	But all this, in effect, is so much rhetoric when we look at the national, regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market.
1610	That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission's proposals.
1611	I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti.
1612	We look to him as the man to root out cartels.
1613	But he would recognise that, as for everybody else, we have to consider his particular proposals and subject them to rigorous examination.
1614	That is something that has been done by our rapporteur on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mr von Wogau.
1615	I want to congratulate him, sadly in his absence, for the thorough and rigorous way in which he has undertaken the preparation of his report - and also for putting up with my being such a thorn in his side!
1616	He mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support.
1617	So although I may not share his conclusions, I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address.
1618	The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy.
1619	I know that the Commission is set against this, but the potential exists.
1620	I remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities. I remain worried about the whole operation of the judicial process.
1621	I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation.
1622	Mr von Wogau said we can look to the European Court.
1623	Well, we in Britain are looking to the European Court at the moment.
1624	We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment, in which we have the support of the Commission.
1625	Unless anybody thinks that this is merely a nationalistic point, in the Factortame case, in which the British Government was the defendant, it took ten years for the European Court to give a ruling.
1626	So, judicially, something needs to be done.
1627	I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area.
1628	In relation to legal certainty, I endorse the point made by Mrs Thyssen.
1629	It is important that business has legal certainty.
1630	I mentioned this again to Commissioner Monti recently.
1631	He said we must not always be carried along by lawyers.
1632	I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom.
1633	We all have, as it were, our histories to live with, but it is important that business has legal certainty.
1634	I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business: a cost-benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy.
1635	I know there has been an analysis of the implications for the Commission of the change.
1636	We have been told how, currently, people's time is being wasted and that the changes, therefore, could be beneficial.
1637	But I really feel that, in the circumstances, we want to know what the implications would be for business.
1638	Finally, we, as British Conservatives, are looking for a change in direction, towards the development of an independent competition authority.
1639	I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that.
1640	Mr President, the European Union' s competition policy has been of central importance since European integration began.
1641	It is an integral part of the tension, inherent in the very concept of European integration, between solidarity and cooperation between Member States, with a view to creating a better and more efficient environment for the people and the economy, and competition, which should provide incentives to improve the competitiveness and future viability of the European Union as an entity.
1642	It is therefore with some justification that competition policy is one of the most important policies.
1643	We can be proud of a European competition culture, for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality.
1644	We can be proud of monopolies and mergers supervision.
1645	However, we must be vigilant in the face of global operators, against whom nation-states are no longer able to impose limits.
1646	That is why we should bear in mind what was said by the French writer Vivienne Forestier, who described the state of the world in terms of the economy' s reign of terror.
1647	Society is surrendering itself to the economy.
1648	That is precisely what we do not want in the European Union.
1649	We are aware that in this age of strategic alliances and millennium mergers - in 1998 USD 2 400 billion was paid out in connection with take-overs - restrictive practices are being held in check, not just by our own rules but also by bilateral cooperation with the USA or Japan, or others, until we get the international competition law we so badly need.
1650	European competition policy, as we very often forget, is not just important for fair competition as such, but also for prices, growth and employment, and hence for the public.
1651	In common with the other Members, I call for Parliament to have codecision rights where competition law is concerned.
1652	It is essential that this long overdue step be taken.
1653	It is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection.
1654	I welcome the fact that Commissioner Monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the European Parliament, as he does in the dialogue with non-governmental organisations, consumer protection associations and the public.
1655	Greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy.
1656	Then it is possible to understand that, for example, lower electricity and telecommunications prices are due to European competition policy, and Brussels should not be pilloried when aid decisions are taken which are, of course, bound to cause problems at a particular moment in time or in a local context.
1657	It is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of EU enlargement.
1658	Emphasis must also be placed on the fact that a state aid policy - and the Jonckheer report makes this very clear - must continue to afford each state the freedom to define and organise the tasks of the public sector and ownership structures on an independent basis.
1659	At the same time, it must be made clear that aid can serve a useful purpose, with a view to offsetting the deficiencies of the market and furthering Community objectives.
1660	A word on the White Paper: the revision of Articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy.
1661	I am opposed to this, unlike the majority of this House and indeed the majority of my own group, because I believe that, in competition policy terms, the directly applicable exception system is in every sense inferior to a system of prohibition unless certain conditions are met, and I believe there is a threat of renationalisation.
1662	The system currently in force creates transparency, affords enterprises legal certainty and has, without a shadow of a doubt, led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement.
1663	The problem of overwork highlighted by the Commission is not a sufficient reason for making radical changes to the legal system.
1664	Indeed, it is debatable whether this could be carried through at all without amending the Treaty.
1665	Mr President, I am very glad that Mrs Randzio-Plath mentioned the very important context of our debate because up until now no other speaker has done so.
1666	The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions.
1667	For example, the figures for last year now show that the total value of mergers in the European area was EUR 1.4 trillion, which is seven times the level of merger activity at the peak of the last European merger boom in 1990.
1668	This poses enormous challenges for competition policy, which I hope it will be able to meet because, for certain, many of those mergers are going to be designed to protect profit margins of the businesses from competition rather than merely to enhance productivity and make those businesses able to operate on a bigger scale.
1669	Commissioner Monti and his colleagues have a tremendous challenge ahead of them and our worries in the ELDR Group are that there should be no weakening in the thrust of competition policy either in the examination of mergers or the monitoring of restrictive practices.
1670	Delegation to national authorities is all very well but we would emphasise what Mr von Wogau said in his report on the need for regular monitoring of national authorities to ensure that there is no slippage in the European element, and, particularly would ask the Commissioner to reassure us that there would be random checks on that.
1671	Mr President, in the limited time I have, I would like to express my support for the work carried out by all the rapporteurs and my agreement with many of the things which have been said here, in particular by Mr Jonckheer, who criticised the excessive gathering of information and the lack of transparency and socio-economic balance in the granting of aid.
1672	I also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of Article 82, especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration.
1673	As a Member for the Basque Country, I would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market.
1674	I say this in case there is any doubt about the criticisms which we have directed at the Commission in general, and Mr Monti, in particular, for its persecution of the incentives to Basque companies and the fact that it considers them to be state aid.
1675	Our discrepancy stems from the fact that the Commission continues to misunderstand the character of the general system and the co-responsibility of our arrangement which gives our Basque fiscal rules the same nature, foundation and aim as the rules of the Member States of the Union, and that they are applied in a general way to all tax-payers who, by virtue of points which fall under an external system of law, are subject to those rules.
1676	Mr President, Commissioner, competition is exactly what we need.
1677	We need competition if there is the least unemployment, for a smooth-running healthcare system, for social justice, for high social standards, and, of course, we also need - these are competition criteria to do with the economy - business management competition so as to achieve highest-quality products, equal market access conditions for all enterprises, and environmentally-friendly products.
1678	In other words, we must succeed in linking the competition criteria that are necessary to the economy with those relating to managerial economics.
1679	I often have the impression, unlike the country I come from - former East Germany - where economic competitiveness is prized above all else and competitiveness relating to managerial economics is disregarded, that very often the reverse is the case; society thinks almost exclusively in terms of managerial economics.
1680	I say that as an entrepreneur who has a vested interest in this.
1681	But a system cannot function in this way: it will only work if the two aspects go hand in hand.
1682	I will give you an example: the European Union was right to support the Grönitz steelworks in Brandenburg, although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained.
1683	But these are competitive jobs, for this steelworks is now the number two tool steel manufacturer in the Federal Republic of Germany.
1684	Anyone who would jeopardise production at this steelworks on principle, by demanding the return of the aid that was granted at the time, would not just place the steelworks itself in jeopardy but also one of the region' s employers that small and medium-sized enterprises are, of course, dependent on too.
1685	It goes without saying that that is not what the European Union' s competition policy is designed to achieve.
1686	If we want there to be competition then we must establish this link between the requirements of the national economy and the pre-requisites of managerial economics.
1687	Indeed that is the only way to build up regional economic circulation in the under-developed regions that will protect people' s social welfare and boost purchasing power.
1688	To that end, we must also make it our business to take more account of demand-orientated economic policy as opposed to one focusing heavily on supply.
1689	Mr President, ever since I was elected to this Parliament in 1994 I have never witnessed a report which had such anti-Irish sentiments and overtones as the Jonckheer report which we are debating today.
1690	I would like to quote verbatim from the report: "State aid per capita is highest in Italy, Germany and Ireland. Ireland clearly is in the lead when national and Community regional and social funds are put together."
1691	I believe that the rapporteur is simply playing with figures.
1692	I find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation.
1693	I should like to remind the Member that the European Union has agreed to the new regional aid guidelines for the period 2000 plus.
1694	This was merely an extension of the policy objectives to complete the internal market within Europe.
1695	Regional disparities must be overcome if the internal market is to succeed and prosper.
1696	I welcome the fact that grant aid of 40% and a top-up of 15% for SMEs for fixed investment will be permitted for companies setting up in Objective 1 regions in Europe post-2000.
1697	I remind Mr Jonckheer that Irish companies or foreign companies in Ireland still have to cross two sea masses to reach the mainland European marketplace.
1698	No other Member State is at such a disadvantage.
1699	Mr President, the monopolies' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in Europe.
1700	The Commission deemed the practical administration relating to the monitoring of the monopolies' ban to be unsatisfactory, something I would wholeheartedly agree with.
1701	But opinion differs as to the solution.
1702	The Commission' s proposal does not formally deviate from the monopolies ban but the upshot of this proposal is a transition from a ban with permit reservation to a permit with ban reservation.
1703	In other words, we are making the transition from the principle of banning to that of misuse.
1704	Both I and other MEPs utterly reject such a drastic change of system.
1705	I do not accept that a practical transposition problem should give rise to changing the law.
1706	We would be changing the law to make it executable again, which is something I consider to be unacceptable.
1707	The Commission is giving up its monopoly on exemptions.
1708	Competition restrictions are to be automatically exempted against the background of this planned system of legal exemption, insofar as the provisions of Article 81(3) of the Treaty on European Union allow.
1709	The requirement to lodge applications in Brussels will be dropped; in other words, the Commission will be completely in the dark in future.
1710	This is unacceptable to my mind.
1711	The Commission' s programme is to be supplemented by enhanced follow-up supervision of the national authorities and Member States' courts.
1712	But if this takes place in the course of renationalisation then what we will have here is a patchwork quilt of competition policy.
1713	This is unacceptable in my view.
1714	It would weaken a key element of European policy.
1715	The change of system in European monopolies law that the European Commission is contemplating is high risk as far as competition policy is concerned.
1716	There are enough other options in the present system to safeguard open markets and free competition.
1717	In any case, the Commission' s proposal refers back to old proposals that were put forward as long ago as the fifties and sixties.
1718	There was no majority for this at the time.
1719	Since France laid a huge amount of emphasis on legal exemption at the time, it was damaged by concessions in agricultural policy.
1720	Forty years on, this proposal has again been placed on the table and I am certain that it will create room for manoeuvre for the monopolies, to the detriment of Europe' s consumers.
1721	I consider this to be unacceptable.
1722	Mr President, in this important debate on competition, I am speaking this morning with particular reference to Mr Langen' s document on the Steel Aid Code.
1723	As the Court of Justice recognised in 1996, the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition-related disturbances.
1724	Indeed, several years ago, this was the conclusion of a report that I compiled on the strengths and weaknesses of the European steel sector.
1725	This is why it was justifiable to set up a system of aid to this sector with the aim of ensuring the survival of successful businesses, even if this was in contradiction of Article 4 of the ECSC Treaty.
1726	This indeed, is the aim of the sixth Steel Aid Code, but at the same time it is important to avoid any infringement of the conditions of competition and any serious disturbance of the markets, hence the importance of regulating such aid.
1727	It is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research, development, environmental protection and cases of company closure.
1728	In the same category of ideas, it is essential that Member States fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the Commission for the aid granted to their steel companies.
1729	The Commission suggests shorter deadlines. I agree with this request.
1730	Like the rapporteur, while I am pleased with the Commission report, nonetheless I deplore the fact that it does not cover all aspects of the aid.
1731	Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way, the Commission has authorised granting steel companies aid which is not covered by the categories stipulated by the Code.
1732	In the interests of equality, either the Code must be applied or it must be modified.
1733	Finally, and in conclusion, Mr President, with the expiry of the ECSC Treaty, the regulations will have to be reviewed since I think that the aid system will have to continue beyond 2002, and in that case I am in favour of a Council regulation which will ensure security in this area.
1734	We therefore await, and I await, the European Commission' s proposals on this matter.
1735	Mr President, I am also going to refer to the report by Mr Langen, which concerns aid to the steel industry.
1736	I agree with the rapporteur on two issues.
1737	Firstly, I agree on the need to guarantee equal conditions for aid to all Member States and, secondly, on the need for transparency with regard to this aid.
1738	We agree with the rapporteur regarding his criticism of the fact that, despite the rules laid down in the sixth Steel Aid Code, the Commission has frequently authorised aid to companies which do not correspond to the categories in that Code.
1739	However, the thing that worries us most, Mr President, is the decrease in prices, by 30%, owing to imports.
1740	The reason for this decrease is unfair competition from South Korea and Taiwan, in the case of steel, as a result of their different working conditions and conditions governing aid.
1741	Orders in the steel industry and the ship-building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically, resulting in a loss of jobs.
1742	I live in a region where the ship-building industry now has very serious problems: Asturias.
1743	With global markets, we need global employment laws and global subsidies.
1744	I know this is difficult to achieve now, but if we do not achieve fair employment laws for all workers, here and elsewhere, and we do not secure equitable subsidies for all countries, here and elsewhere, it will be difficult to preserve jobs in Europe and outside it.
1745	Mr President, Commissioner, Director-General, I would particularly like to emphasise the following in relation to the von Wogau report: I welcome the Commission' s open-minded endeavours to initiate debate on the hitherto strict procedural rules, and to propose practical reform measures.
1746	I congratulate the rapporteur Karl von Wogau, who takes up the theme but also makes quite plain his demand for clarification, indicates the accompanying measures that need to be taken, and pulls no punches when it comes to the problems currently under discussion.
1747	The White Paper and the report are contributions made at the beginning of a necessary process of reflection, discussion, and reform which has yet to be concluded because there are still a few questions posed by ourselves, the judiciary, the Member States, and above all the SMEs concerned, that need to be clarified.
1748	Competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and Europe as a business location in a global economy.
1749	However, it must be "europeanised" taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
1750	I also welcome, therefore, the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual, without the Commission giving up any of its responsibility.
1751	In practice, only 9 cases were rejected, 94% of the cases that the Commission had to process were not dealt with formally but by means of unpublished, non-legally binding administrative communications or on account of the expiry of deadlines, which clearly shows that the work of the Commission is subject to time-related, staffing and financial limitations in this age of globalisation and EU enlargement
1752	To conclude, I would like to tell you what I am expecting from this reform: fair competition and equal competition conditions, legal certainty for all enterprises, consistent application of competition policy, procedural simplification according to the principle of the one-stop-shop, coordination of the national - and to me, independent - competition authorities, close cooperation between the national authorities and courts and the Commission, along with a clear distribution of competences between national authorities and courts in the application of European competition and monopolies law, and I expect the Commission to concentrate on what is most crucial in the fulfilment of its tasks as the supreme guardian of the European competition policies.
1753	I am in suspense as to how the discussions, which were broadly based, will be incorporated in the first legislative proposal.
1754	The Commission report confirms that, with the exception of Germany, state aid to businesses is increasing.
1755	The Commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition.
1756	As far as we are concerned, we look at things from the point of view of the interests of the working classes.
1757	Society gains nothing from these massive transfers of public funds to private business.
1758	Take, for example, the car manufacturing sector, where subsidies and state aid of various sorts have increased by 24% during the reference period.
1759	With what aim?
1760	Not to save jobs.
1761	All these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies.
1762	Not to improve working conditions, for in increasing production with fewer workers, working conditions are made worse.
1763	Did these firms need state aid to survive?
1764	No, car manufacturers have been making colossal profits for years.
1765	State aid is not only counterproductive because, as the Jonckheer report acknowledges, it gives rise to subsidy hunting with firms relocating from one country to another, but it is unacceptable because it allocates public monies to the enrichment of a handful of private shareholders.
1766	It is because the richest people are being favoured everywhere with state money that throughout Europe social protection is being reduced, public services are being abandoned, hospitals are being closed.
1767	In voting against the Jonckheer report, I wish to assert the need for another policy, to wit, ceasing all aid to private firms and utilising the money thereby saved to develop public services and recruit staff.
1768	Mr President, today' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market.
1769	In accordance with the principle of competition, the legislation has implemented Articles 85 to 94, competition policy in the strict sense, and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition.
1770	Firstly, fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently, thanks to Commissioner Monti, there have been direct provisions, the code of good conduct in particular.
1771	This has worked fairly well, but, as in the famous film Casablanca 'time goes by' and we must adapt the legislation we have been applying until now to the new circumstances.
1772	In this respect I have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions.
1773	Firstly, it is necessary, in drawing up the legislation, to produce clear and complete rules.
1774	It is probably horrendous, especially in this particular raft of legislation, that there are confused rules, regulatory vacuums and rules that only lay down undefined legal concepts.
1775	This is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities.
1776	Thirdly, it seems to me important that the Commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the Commission, in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies.
1777	Fourthly, and lastly - and this has already been mentioned - the international legal order has changed.
1778	We have seen this in the aborted Seattle Conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world.
1779	The principle of competition must now be universal in its application.
1780	We must monitor compliance with environmental standards, employment standards, in order to prevent dumping in this area, and we must ensure scrupulous respect for property rights and the revision of state aid, which in many industries - as has already been said - distorts competition and destroys jobs within our own territory. To sum up, we should apply similar conditions that will prevent aid, internal distortions by other countries, from being transferred to the international arena, in other words, through trickery.
1781	Mr President, Commissioner Monti, there is much that is good in Mr Jonckheer' s report on state aid for manufacturing industry and certain other sectors.
1782	First of all the report reveals Parliament' s single-minded determination to reduce state aid to ensure that the internal market functions flawlessly.
1783	Many of the report' s conclusions, however, are cause for concern, at least for our group.
1784	For example, the fact that the amount and level of state aid calculated on a per capita basis vary considerably from Member State to Member State reveals the need for surveys such as this.
1785	Aid that is based on the self-seeking ambitions of a nation gives companies unfair advantages, thus distorting competition and leading to an ineffective, uneconomic division of Europe' s meagre resources.
1786	The form the aid takes is important.
1787	Forms of state aid that require an effort from the beneficiary are to be supported.
1788	For example, state guarantees, on which the Commission has just publicised its position, must naturally be considered state aid, but they are, in my opinion, a better option than granting aid directly to companies.
1789	The report on competition policy further stresses the Commission' s confidence in hard and fast rules instead of putting the emphasis on economic arguments regarding efficiency, which affects competitiveness.
1790	The European economy will never achieve the level of competitiveness desired if we do not show we trust in the markets.
1791	If competition policy is to be made subordinate to the aims of social and environmental policy, real efficiency and economic growth will remain just a dream.
1792	Competition policy has to be seen as part of the whole of the economy and it must be assessed with reference to trade policy and non-material rights: we should not just be emphasising its social dimension.
1793	The aims of social policy can be best realised through stronger economic growth, not by making compromises with regard to decisions on competition policy.
1794	Mr Rapkay' s report also emphasises the importance of the international dimension with regard to competition law.
1795	In my opinion, it would be good if we could achieve consensus at the international level regarding certain basic principles of competition law.
1796	Aiming instead at harmonised minimum standards will easily lead to a situation where we leap over the lowest hurdle and end up with the lowest common denominator, which will water down all the aims of competition policy.
1797	Mr President, Mr Monti, the reform of competition rules calls for a commitment by the European Union, not only in the light and as a consequence of changes which have taken place through the years, but also with a forward-looking view to the Union' s enlargement.
1798	I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau, for his commitment and I welcome his thoughts.
1799	Moreover, I would like to say that I appreciate the remarks and observations that Professor Tesauro, Chairman of the Italian Competition Authority, sent me, and which I am sure Mr Monti will take into due account with a strong sense of collaboration.
1800	As things stand, there are considerable differences between them which come to the fore if we compare the English, Italian and French markets. There is a large degree of state protectionism in the French market which is not found in the English market and is only present to an extremely limited extent in Italy.
1801	Another issue concerns the economies of countries involved in enlargement, which may run the risk of remaining assisted economies for ever more if provision is not made for gradual adjustment.
1802	In my opinion, we should also create a threshold below which two significant components which characterise our economic structure should be placed: small and medium-sized businesses, which bind the European economy together, and social protection, which Europe has always guaranteed to the weakest parts of the economy.
1803	Safeguarding the social function of the market is what makes the difference between free trade, pure and simple, and a system for improving people' s quality of life.
1804	A point to consider regarding the new rules concerns the economy of the outermost regions and islands, all of which must be protected.
1805	We ought therefore to consider creating two focal points of an external market by instigating profitable relations with Russia and the Mediterranean countries, precisely so that their economies become less peripheral.
1806	I hope - and I thank Mr Monti for this - that the new rules will reflect as many aspects of economic policy as possible and that their social function will be guaranteed.
1807	Mr President, competition is at the heart of the European internal market policy and is also its driving force.
1808	A free and open market can only exist by the grace of competition, marked by clear, uniform rules.
1809	In his report, Karl von Wogau manages to capture this very well.
1810	But Europe is changing.
1811	The economies are growing, we are enlarging to 25-30 Member States.
1812	The European Commission will become overburdened if it pursues its current policy.
1813	It is therefore necessary to modernise competition policy.
1814	This is not in question.
1815	Having said this, I still have concerns about the proposed decentralisation.
1816	How will the Commission, as keeper of the Treaties, guarantee that decisions are taken uniformly in matters of competition in London, Palermo, Helsinki and, soon, Budapest and Ankara?
1817	This is necessary if legal inequality is to be prevented, and issues of competition will gravitate towards the court where the most lenient judgements are given.
1818	It is not enough to say that, in the Member States, there is already 40 years' worth of experience.
1819	In the Netherlands, the competition authority is still in its infancy.
1820	This country has a very small market which, unfortunately, is often at the same time defined as the relevant market.
1821	This in contrast to Germany, where a very experienced Kartellamt is exercising its powers within a gigantic market.
1822	The European Commission' s belief that, in all quarters of the Union, legislation will, almost as a matter of course, be interpreted in the same way, is what, within catholic circles, we term "foolhardy," and this is not allowed.
1823	Uniformity needs to be worked on.
1824	Think of specialist, national courts with the option of direct appeal to a special competition court at the European Court.
1825	This special court in Luxembourg is necessary in order to build up broad expertise.
1826	Moreover, due to the immense economic and social interests involved, we cannot afford to wait for a judgement to be pronounced two years after the event, as is now quite normal.
1827	What is the Commissioner' s opinion of this?
1828	I would like to finish off by making an important point for small and medium-sized businesses.
1829	In order to grant small and medium-sized companies greater security, the European Commission itself needs to draw up an exemption regulation for small and medium-sized businesses so that, alongside vertical exemptions, horizontal exemptions will also be possible.
1830	Through cooperation, small, independent firms must be able to stand up to the large chains.
1831	It cannot be the aim of European competition policy to make life impossible for small businesses.
1832	Moreover, regarding these small businesses, we will have to consider whether it would not be better to apply a system with a prior warning built in, the yellow card, instead of an immediate red card, which will be a large fine and will threaten the company' s very existence.
1833	Mr President, being the last to speak gives me the privilege, Commissioner, of telling you that the majority of this House supports your initiative and has expressed a total, and, I believe, justified, confidence in you at the helm of this boat.
1834	But we all want to be oarsmen on it. We all belong on the same boat and want to row with you.
1835	I therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform.
1836	The many ideas which have been expressed here could be put into three broad categories.
1837	Firstly, there is the concern that some have expressed, in particular Mrs Randzio-Plath, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of whether this new system of legal exception is absolutely compatible with the Treaty.
1838	I share that concern and I believe that this issue should be addressed.
1839	Secondly, we have the issue of companies' legal certainty.
1840	It is true, Commissioner, that the Commission is not a machine for manufacturing legal certainty.
1841	We all agree on this.
1842	But it is nonetheless true - and this has been repeated from all sections of this House - that the European industrial fabric is composed of small and medium-sized businesses, and that the Commission often plays the role of auctoritas, of legitimising the nature of the internal market.
1843	On this point I will give my opinion on something which Mr Karas said.
1844	There have only been nine rejections.
1845	But here I would like to call on my experience as a lawyer.
1846	How often has a lawyer with two companies and one project, in the face of a Commission guideline given ex ante, changed that project in order for it to comply with the competition rules!
1847	This is therefore an aspect to be considered.
1848	Thirdly, we have the problem of the uniform application of Community law.
1849	In this respect, the excellent speech by Mrs Thyssen cannot be improved upon.
1850	I believe that biodiversity is good, as is cultural diversity, but not diversity in the application of the law with regard to the essential core of the internal market, that is to say, competition law.
1851	Here improvements should be made.
1852	Only in certain countries, Germany for example, is there specialised jurisdiction.
1853	Perhaps this is a promising avenue to explore, but we must also explore others.
1854	What we cannot do, Commissioner - and I would like to end on this note - is to give way, and give ammunition, to those who regard the European institutions as the property of the great and the good, of the rich, and not of the citizen, or the small and medium business, which, in the worst case scenario - which will never become reality because the requisite measures will be applied to prevent it - will result in courts which make disparate judgements, very late, with no real possibility of control apart from what the French call "le parcours du combatant", that is to say, after Lord knows how many years, when the Court in Luxembourg passes judgement, a Court which we know to be inundated at the moment.
1855	Commissioner, it is impossible to overstate the importance of this reform.
1856	It transcends competition, it transcends the cohesion of the internal market. I believe that it profoundly affects the meaning of European integration, the meaning of the legitimacy of European integration.
1857	Therefore, Commissioner, we are relying on this interinstitutional dialogue to put the finishing touches to a reform which we are all hoping for and which we believe will lead us to a successful conclusion under your direction and with our cooperation.
1858	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I heartily congratulate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the entire European Parliament for the great deal of interest shown in competition-related subjects.
1859	In my opinion, Mr President, this joint debate fully bears this out.
1860	We have heard some very thorough observations which both concern the philosophy of economic policy and are important for the institutional order.
1861	Our common aim is to reform and strengthen competition policy, a pillar of the social market economy and of European construction.
1862	The guiding thread running through all the aspects of the reform of competition policy, which we shall have the opportunity to address together, aims to ensure more effective protection of competition, reduce the bureaucratic burden weighing down businesses and take decision-making processes closer to the European people.
1863	I, personally, would sincerely like to thank Mr von Wogau for his commitment in examining the dossier on the White Paper and for the quality of his report.
1864	I would like to divide the considerations raised during this debate on the von Wogau report into four groups. I do not consider these considerations to be criticisms of the Commission, but, on the contrary, fundamental contributions, since justified concerns have been expressed that we both want to overcome.
1865	The groups are: the efficiency of the rules, the risk of renationalisation, consistent application of the rules and legal certainty. I will take these very quickly one at a time.
1866	Efficiency: I am convinced that this reform will strengthen the protection of competition within the single market rather than weaken it.
1867	The current notification instrument, ladies and gentlemen, no longer allows us to reach this objective because it does not guarantee that the Commission is properly informed about the most serious restrictions - I would remind you that, in 35 years, there have only been nine cases in which the Commission has decided on prohibition following notification in the absence of a complaint - nor does it guarantee transparency or provide real legal certainty for businesses which, in the majority of cases, receive a simple comfort letter.
1868	The proposed system will improve the protection of competition, primarily because it will allow the Commission to concentrate its action on the most serious restrictions, also because it will involve national and competition authorities to a greater degree in stamping out infringements, and lastly in that it will allow victims of infringements to have direct recourse to national judges, whose mission is to protect the rights of individuals.
1869	The question of renationalisation: first of all, although it is not really necessary, I would like to point out and stress, several times if I may, that the White Paper does not affect mergers or State aid in the slightest - we are not looking for devolution in these areas - but that, as far as Regulation 17 is concerned, there is a risk of renationalisation.
1870	Of course we have pondered this issue, and we are still studying it extremely carefully, and this is also thanks to the concerns you have voiced.
1871	At the end of the day, I honestly do not believe that this fear is justified.
1872	The Commission proposal accords the Commission a central role in establishing guidelines on competition policy.
1873	The reform does not entail any reduction in the Commission' s activities, but requires them to focus on the most important dossiers.
1874	The reform will lead to a gradual development - I stress this because I was particularly taken with this term, used by Mrs Randzio-Plath, and, moreover, I fully agree with it - of European competition culture.
1875	So, the reform will lead to the various national competition cultures being transplanted and taking root in the European competition culture - where today various small plants thrive, and they are certainly not all the same.
1876	The fifteen sets of national provisions will gradually be abandoned, permitting greater use of Community law, which a higher number of protagonists will be able to apply.
1877	Allow me to emphasise that this is communitisation, not renationalisation, of competition law.
1878	The question of consistent application: the risk of inconsistent application of competition rules must be borne in mind, but I do not believe that it should be exaggerated.
1879	As with many other provisions of the Treaty, Articles 81(1) and 82 have, after all, been applied for decades by national authorities and judges, and I do not feel that this has created serious problems.
1880	In a directly applicable exception system, consistency will depend firstly on the degree of clarity of the material rules.
1881	The Commission will make every effort to define the legislative framework, both through general provisions and through its decision-making practice.
1882	Secondly, we will need to set efficient mechanisms in place to prevent disputes, and the White Paper sets out mechanisms for information and consultation.
1883	In this respect, I would like to say something about the excellent idea put forward by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen and Mr Huhne of monitoring implementation.
1884	This then is the idea of monitoring implementation.
1885	I must say that I find this a very good idea that we will probably take up.
1886	Though we have a high respect for the work of national competition authorities and so on, it is evident that we will watch very carefully how EC law is applied by national authorities and courts.
1887	That is why the Commission wants to keep the right to withdraw a case from a national competition authority in the event of incorrect application.
1888	This goes at least some way towards alleviating your concerns, Mrs Peijs.
1889	Concerning Mr Evans' point regarding the implications for businesses, it is important that the cost-benefit analysis should be seriously conducted.
1890	The purpose of publishing the White Paper is, after all, to collect comments from businesses as well as from other sources.
1891	We have received many excellent observations and contributions which give us the material to make a cost-benefit assessment for business.
1892	We will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation.
1893	There is one point about the impact for firms which is of great importance. This was raised by Mrs Thyssen, Mrs Peijs and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi: the issue of SMEs.
1894	Many speakers have underlined this.
1895	The Commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for SMEs.
1896	We are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for SMEs.
1897	Why?
1898	Is this simply a political gesture?
1899	No.
1900	In the system we propose reforming our substantive rules in such a way that most SMEs will be covered by block exemption regulations, as in the field of vertical restraints.
1901	Most SMEs have in fact less than 30% of the market share.
1902	We have a de minimis notice which contains a declaration that since SMEs are not involved in market dominance they are not normally subject to the strict prohibition under Article 81(1).
1903	We are working on further block exemptions and guidelines which will all take into account the particular situation of SMEs, and our White Paper on modernisation will also improve the situation of SMEs, first by eliminating the bureaucracy resulting from the present notification system, and secondly, by making Article 81(3) directly applicable, which will benefit SMEs in particular.
1904	The fourth group is legal certainty. Mr Evans, legal certainty is, of course - and I am the first to acknowledge this - important for businesses, not just for the legal professions, although the latter do play an extremely important role in the construction of Europe.
1905	Legal certainty is important for businesses: this is a subject, the importance of which the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, emphasised in her last intervention - and I am very grateful to her for the way she always takes the widest interest in subjects regarding the single market, including, in this case, competition.
1906	I am convinced that this proposal will increase legal certainty for businesses for three reasons: by virtue of the direct effect of Article 81(3), it will permit authorisation, without a prior decision, of all restrictive competition agreements which meet the exemption conditions; it will create the opportunity to help businesses in the event of doubts over interpretation through the publication of reasoned opinions; it will be accompanied by exemption regulations and guidelines which will clarify the rules and ensure certainty.
1907	(FR) Mrs Thyssen also referred to the matter of legal privilege for company lawyers.
1908	Let me simply remind you that the Court of Justice pronounced a ruling on this in 1982, as you know better than I. This ruling remains valid and there is nothing to justify any reconsideration thereof.
1909	The White Paper requires only a single aspect of the issue to be re-examined: the exchange of confidential information.
1910	The guarantees which companies must be given are currently under discussion.
1911	(IT) I shall now quickly turn, Mr President, to Mr Rapkay' s report, and I would like to thank him sincerely for the quality of his work and for the broad endorsement given to the Commission' s XXVIIIth Annual Report on Competition Policy.
1912	We share the same basic views but the Rapkay report lays emphasis on several points that we shall need to consider very carefully.
1913	I will mention only two, in order to be brief.
1914	The first is greater transparency.
1915	Parliament knows how important we all consider the question of transparency in competition policy, as I did right from the moment I had my hearing, on 1 September, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
1916	As regards the international aspect of competition policy, I can confirm, Mr Rapkay, that the Commission is willing to provide Parliament with a report on this subject, to which Mrs Randzio-Plath has also drawn our attention.
1917	We have very satisfactory bilateral relations with the relevant American, Canadian and Japanese authorities as regards competition policy, and we are working to ensure that competition is treated as a separate topic within the World Trade Organisation.
1918	Mr Jonckheer, I would like to thank you just as warmly for your report on the seventh survey on State aid in the European Union.
1919	I will not talk about codecision here, but this certainly does not mean I do not consider it important.
1920	It has major institutional implications which obviously go beyond the specific area of competition; I am therefore not qualified to give an opinion, and this is obviously a matter for the broader context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
1921	With regard to your suggestions, Mr Jonckheer, you already know that my staff, who, although short-handed as usual, are fortunately highly qualified, are working hard to produce the register of State aids and the State aids 'scoreboard' .
1922	I am awaiting with great interest the results of the eighth survey, which, according to the scheduled timeframe, should be being drawn up by the staff now, in January, and for adoption by the Commission in March 2000, to see whether the latest trends are confirmed.
1923	Mr Jonckheer, Mrs Thyssen and Mr Gemelli raised the issue of the state of preparation of the candidate countries in terms of competition in general and of State aid.
1924	I can only say very briefly, that we are actively working with them on a practical level: they are making preparations, they now all have competition laws and are setting up the relevant authorities.
1925	I can also say, in respect of your concerns on energy and especially on the environment - which, as you know, I share - that we are concluding the review of the organisation of environmental State aid.
1926	In connection with the issue of State aid, I would also like to take up one of the points raised by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, among others regarding repayment of illegal aid.
1927	In April 1999, the Commission adopted new Rules of Procedure which introduced specific rules on repayment.
1928	In the near future - and I can assure you of this - you will see just how seriously we mean to take these rules.
1929	Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Langen warmly for his report, which, although geared more towards a specific sector, is a valuable contribution.
1930	I would like to say that, as we know, the Commission report on State aid to the steel industry does not include individual decisions made under the exception procedure, pursuant to Article 95 of the ECSC Treaty, but addresses decisions which are not covered by the code on aid for the steel sector.
1931	In respect of future provisions on aid for the steel sector, which will come into force in July 2002, we will ensure that strict discipline continues to be applied, and the industry itself now agrees on the need for this.
1932	When we have finalised our proposal on the new rules and decided on the most suitable legal form, I will be happy to present our viewpoint to you.
1933	So, Mr President, I will walk away from this debate, for which I am very grateful to Parliament, in the knowledge that we have the European Parliament' s intellectual and political support, which appears to come from all sides of the House, for competition policy, its basic appreciation for the work the Commission is carrying out and its confidence in our ability to continue to deliver in the future.
1934	I am especially grateful for all of this. We will continue the interinstitutional dialogue opened with the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, and, at a more general level, with Parliament.
1935	In this regard, I liked your term, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi: we must all pull together, preferably in the same direction.
1936	Competition is not an end in itself, as Mr Rapkay rightly pointed out, but it plays an extremely important role in European integration.
1937	As Mr von Wogau said at the start of the debate, at the end of the day competition is not an abstract concept: it is in the public interest and forms the basis of the social market economy.
1938	I would also like to say that competition policy will play a valuable social, as well as economic, role in the European integration process, as it has done in the past.
1939	Thank you, Commissioner Monti.
1940	The joint debate is closed.
1941	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
1942	Protection under criminal law of the Union's financial interests
1943	The next item is the report (A5-0002/2000) by Mrs Theato, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, containing Parliament' s recommendations to the Commission on introducing protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests.
1944	Mr President, year after year we learn, mainly from the European Court of Auditors' test reports, that money is lost to the budget of the European Union on account of misdemeanours ranging from wastage, mismanagement, and irregularities to suspected blatant fraud.
1945	For some time now, these abuses have meant that Parliament has been called upon to initiate measures that should serve to protect the European taxpayer' s money, which, when all is said and done, is what sustains the Union' s budget.
1946	Particular attention in this respect should be given to combating fraud, to detecting it, punishing those guilty of it and preventing it from happening.
1947	Creating UCLAF by means of the Task Force and setting up the anti-fraud office OLAF were important steps, as was the regulation on protecting the financial interests of the Community and on local monitoring.
1948	The Union can only impose sanctions in the field pertaining to administrative law when cases are exposed.
1949	So far, efforts on the part of the Commission to ask for improperly obtained money to be returned only had limited success.
1950	It is for the Member States to undertake criminal measures.
1951	Since there is often overlap between the two legal angles and cross-border violations against the Union budget are on the increase - they are also committed by those involved in organised crime - it is unclear as to where the responsibility lies amongst the Member States.
1952	Then there are differences between the national legal requirements of the individual Member States, together with protracted or even unfulfilled requests for mutual assistance in law enforcement.
1953	What is more, the agreement on the protection of financial interests and the two subsequent protocols signed by the European Council in 1995 did nothing to change this.
1954	For it to enter into force, it must be ratified by all 15 Member States.
1955	After five years only four have done so.
1956	This state of deadlock, which threatens to undermine the credibility of the Union, has inspired Parliament to initiate the setting-up of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office.
1957	There is no intention whatsoever to create a transnational criminal law and judicial authority, rather the aim is to equip the Union with specific instruments for the protection of its financial interests, that is whilst upholding the principle of subsidiarity.
1958	We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised.
1959	The concerns of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as articulated in its position, together with those of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, will also be taken full account of in this process.
1960	We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency, transparency, and the protection of the rights of individuals.
1961	In addition, we need - and this is my first recommendation - a legislative act that includes those offences which are to the detriment of the Union' s financial interests, and in which main principles are firmly established.
1962	I support the proposed deadline for the Commission being 30 September in a proposed amendment.
1963	The second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings.
1964	The Commission ought - and I have also amended this deadline to 31 May 2000 - to propose a legislative act on the establishment of an independent body which has institutional links with the Commission, for coordinating and supervising the legal investigative body OLAF.
1965	The existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the Director of the agency.
1966	The proposal for a legislative act of this kind should contain an independent statute for this body and define its tasks, which are confined to inquiries and criminal prosecution undertaken by OLAF into activities which are to the detriment of the Union' s financial interests, and to OLAF' s relationship with the national authorities.
1967	There is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the Member States.
1968	The Court of Justice is to monitor the legality of the legislative acts.
1969	In addition, we call upon the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference to take up debate on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office for the protection of the financial interests of the Union, where possible on the basis of the now widely recognised study compiled by well-known experts, the so-called corpus juris, and of the feasibility studies that have subsequently appeared.
1970	Further support for this proposal is also to be found in the second report of the so-called Five Wise Men.
1971	The Commission, Mr Barnier, Mr Vitorino and several Member States are equally receptive to the idea.
1972	I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this report, which the Committee on Budgetary Control adopted with a large majority.
1973	We can set another example here, to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular, fraud, and to mete out punishment where necessary.
1974	Mr President, I am happy to take the floor in the debate on this report and I congratulate Mrs Theato.
1975	I believe that this is a report for which cooperation between committees has worked very well, and the result, which we have received today, is moderate and thoughtful in a very delicate area. This moderation and thoughtfulness is particularly necessary in the implementation of Article 280(4).
1976	If we had to give a prize for the article which was most difficult to understand, least clear and most confused - however you like to put it - the competition would be very hard fought.
1977	The Treaty is a collection of complex articles. However, this one would undoubtedly be one of the firm favourites to win such a prize.
1978	At the same time, it is an especially delicate issue because it deals with the protection of the Community' s financial interests, as Mrs Theato has explained very well.
1979	We are all aware - and this Parliament has been the steadfast champion in this respect - of the need to protect the financial interests of the Community. But be careful.
1980	As the French say, "ne jettons pas le bébé avec l'eau du bain" [let us not throw the baby out with the bath water], that is to say, in the protection of the Community' s financial interests, we must respect, on the one hand - as Mrs Theato has said - the competences of the Member States, but also other matters which affect the citizens, which affect the essential guarantees.
1981	The conclusions of the Theato report safeguard them perfectly.
1982	Therefore, in my capacity as president of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and, of course, as an MEP, I hope that a large majority of this House will support this report and that it will be well implemented by the Commission.
1983	Mr President, this, as Mrs Theato said, is a critical report.
1984	It is a report that has been proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and it is an own-initiative report.
1985	One of the reasons why we were very keen to bring this forward was because, whether we like it or not, the European Union has a reputation for fraud and mismanagement.
1986	It is sometimes exaggerated but there it is. We need to do something about it.
1987	Some of the measures we have put in place in the past have not been honoured by some of the Member States - and let us not forget that the Member States are responsible for implementing about 80% of the EU budget.
1988	A lot of them have not signed up to or not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests, and therefore it was clear that something more radical needed to be done.
1989	We need to take this responsibility seriously.
1990	We need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the European Union.
1991	The question is: who prosecutes?
1992	That is where we really get into difficulty.
1993	Whose responsibility is it when you are dealing with a body that crosses so many frontiers?
1994	We need also to be sensitive to the concerns of Member States.
1995	The proposal to set up a European public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one.
1996	We are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a European judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people.
1997	But the discussion needs to begin and we are therefore calling on the IGC to start discussions.
1998	Of most importance to Parliament, as the guardian of the budget of the European Union, is how to deal with people who work within the European Union institutions.
1999	At a time when we are looking at the whole reform process it is critical that we send the right signal.
2000	People need to understand that if they commit fraud they will be prosecuted, and that is not the case at the moment.
2001	The whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by Mrs Palacio.
2002	I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question.
2003	We are aware that it is a delicate debate.
2004	We know that the Commission may perhaps need the scope to negotiate a situation which would be acceptable to all parties.
2005	Can I just make it clear that we have no commitment to a corpus juris here, no commitment to a federal European public prosecutor.
2006	But there is a definite commitment to change the status quo which is totally unacceptable.
2007	Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Theato on her report. I think it is a first-class report which will, for the most part, be supported by my group.
2008	I just have the distinct feeling that she would have preferred to take it a little further at this stage.
2009	Judging from the discussions held over the past five or six months, this could well be the case.
2010	We all know that, in 1995, it was agreed that the Union' s financial interests should be given better protection under criminal law.
2011	But the Member States failed to cooperate.
2012	This is just a political fact about which little can be done at present, I think.
2013	It is now possible, on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty, that the Commission will take new initiatives, and I would like to suggest to the Commission that it do this at the earliest opportunity.
2014	Unlike the previous speaker, who has now disappeared, my group is strongly in favour of a European Public Prosecutor.
2015	My colleague Jan-Kees Wiebenga, will undoubtedly take this point further because he has already published a report on the same subject matter.
2016	I think what we need is, at European level, to come up with exact definitions of fraud and irregularity as quickly as possible.
2017	I myself have been involved in the committee of inquiry on transit traffic.
2018	One of the major problems in this area was that if you do something wrong, especially when it comes to revenue of the European Union, then this will be termed an irregularity in one country and a crime in another.
2019	This, I thought, is no longer permissible, certainly not at the moment.
2020	I would like to make one general point on politics.
2021	Whatever we may say about the European elections, the low turnout is a fact.
2022	We can improve on this by punishing crime in Europe quickly, and this must be done at European level.
2023	Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur.
2024	Mrs Theato' s report may help to restore confidence in European institutions.
2025	I believe that is something we are all desperately in need of, bearing in mind the results of the last European elections and of the level of turnout.
2026	Yet, every year we have the same problem.
2027	The Court of Auditors publishes its report, which criticises the Member States on account of various incidences of fraud.
2028	So far, however, the European institutions have not had sufficient means at their disposal to take vigorous action here, to ensure that implementation actually takes place and that matters are remedied.
2029	It is precisely this process that undermines confidence every year.
2030	I believe that Mrs Theato' s report and her proposal can help to reverse this very process and to make clear that the European institutions take steps to ensure that European money is employed in a targeted manner and that no fraud is perpetrated here.
2031	It is important that after the first step, which has already been taken, i.e. forming OLAF from UCLAF - an independent institution - we now take the second step and create a legal framework for OLAF, in order that OLAF too might operate within a secure legal framework.
2032	We will need the European Public Prosecutor' s Office for this, which will see to it that there are clear legal guarantees, also for suspects.
2033	Having said all that, I must say that unfortunately, my group will not be voting for your report as a united front.
2034	I hope that the debate will convince a few more people.
2035	Unfortunately, however, people still have too many misgivings to the effect that this will be the kind of European institution that undermines subsidiarity.
2036	But I will do what I can to see that Mrs Theato' s report receives more support.
2037	Mr President, we are basically in favour of the resolution that has been tabled, even if we think that this can only be interpreted as an invitation by Parliament to the Council to amend the Treaties, so that effective protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests can be guaranteed.
2038	The establishment of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office and the definition of offences common to all countries of the Union is doubtless a good idea, but it is impossible to consider putting this into practice without having first introduced a European legal system.
2039	Indeed, we are talking about criminal law, the area where resistance that national States put up to communitisation is, and will be, fierce.
2040	Indeed, it is unthinkable that we could put in place substantial and procedural legal regulations solely for one sector - that of the protection of financial interests - without first having created a European legal system.
2041	Reading the precise and comprehensive explanations in the Theato report makes you realise just how many problems still need to be resolved and what these problems are.
2042	In any case, this idea must be encouraged, and it will doubtless be during this attempt to protect financial interests that we realise that we need to include a Community corpus iuris in the Treaties.
2043	On behalf of my group, but also personally, I hope that the vital financial spirit of the Union will pave the way for the creation of a European legal system which respects citizens' rights and guarantees, which is to say a legal system that will raise guarantees to the acceptable levels hitherto unseen in many States.
2044	Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we support the Theato report; I nevertheless think that this is essentially a subject that should be included on the IGC agenda.
2045	Mr President, Mrs Theato' s report on the protection of the European Union' s financial interests proposes centralising criminal proceedings by initially creating a European Public Prosecutor.
2046	This proposal is radically opposed to the spirit of the current system in which the criminal law and criminal proceedings that lie at the heart of the national legal systems must come under the sovereignty of each nation and lie within the exclusive competence of each state.
2047	But the idea of a European Public Prosecutor, on the other hand, aims in the long term to confine the national states to a subordinate role in these matters.
2048	Moreover, this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms.
2049	According to the Theato report, the European Public Prosecutor is needed, in particular, in order to better support the inquiries of the anti-fraud office, OLAF.
2050	At the same time, however, we see from the van Hulten report under discussion today that the European Public Prosecutor should in turn be supervised by a European Union court.
2051	In this way, a small European reform may hide a medium-sized one, and a medium-sized one may hide a large one.
2052	Not to mention that the large one may hide a gigantic one, as the very next thing we will see is a proposal for a European criminal law and then, why not a European Minister of Justice, supervised by an extension of the powers of the European Parliament?
2053	I therefore feel we must carefully consider the balance of power that we are in danger of upsetting if we put forward this type of reform, which appears to be quite specific.
2054	In the final analysis, we feel that proposals such as the proposal for a European Public Prosecutor demonstrate an inability to conceive of a Europe in anything other than a centralised and hierarchical form, organised around a superstate.
2055	The Union for a Europe of Nations Group, on the other hand, wishes to see a polycentric Europe with nations linked in a network.
2056	And such a network could take the form of improved coordination between national public prosecution authorities, for example, and the creation, if necessary, of national teams specialising in offences involving Community finances.
2057	So the legal framework, Mr President, is already in place.
2058	It is fine, in principle. It need only be fine-tuned.
2059	Mr President, Mrs Theato is proposing institutional revolution for a twofold reason.
2060	Public opinion, although indifferent to 20 million unemployed and thousands of mad cows, is now supposed to be worried about the fraud endangering financial interests and these two reasons are supposed to justify a twofold solution: a European criminal code with crimes against the Community and a European Prosecutor-General.
2061	Mrs Theato probably forgot to include a European prison now that we have the FBI, the European police, in the form of OLAF.
2062	All this would be established by two regulations, one for the Public Prosecutor and another for the criminal code. The regulations would be adopted pursuant to Article 280 of the Treaty, i.e. based on secondary law, whose characteristic feature is that it makes any sort of secondary shift of emphasis possible.
2063	And indeed there is a twofold shift.
2064	Firstly, the classic Eurofederalist ideological shift, a single market, a single VAT, a single diplomatic service, a single army and now a single criminal code and a single public prosecutor.
2065	All this to combat fraud worth less than EUR 1 billion, while disregarding the tens of billions of euros lost due to the Generalised System of Preferences, free trade areas, customs presents to Chiquita and the billions lost to the fourth resource, GDP, as a result of the budgetary rationing pact.
2066	Next we have the Puritan shift: the Teutonic Europe of the North, the Europe of the Lutherans, Calvinists and Quakers, wishes to inflict its moral order on us.
2067	Basically, the more we lose our grip on morals, the more we tighten our grip on our wallet.
2068	Mr President, it is essential for there to be effective protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the European Union, more so these days than there used to be.
2069	The fraud and corruption scandals of the past have had a profoundly damaging effect on the confidence of Europe' s citizens.
2070	The credibility of the efforts we make here in Parliament to employ our finances properly stands and falls with the efforts we make to deal with such scandals and prevent them from arising in the future.
2071	This does not just mean administrative changes but also structural changes; in other words we must create instruments which are actually capable of affording protection under criminal law.
2072	The Intergovernmental Conference 2000 will provide the appropriate forum for discussing this.
2073	Now it is, of course, possible to take the view that criminal law and criminal proceedings law are intrinsically matters pertaining to the law of the Member States and it is quite unthinkable that they should be governed by the principle of subsidiarity.
2074	There is no doubt that I myself am one of the advocates of this principle and one of those who oppose any further extension of competences at European level.
2075	When it comes to the demands made on the Intergovernmental Conference agenda, it is the call for there to be clear delimitation of competences that should take centre stage.
2076	Now that is not a contradiction, since the demand for an instrument of criminal law and criminal proceedings law, as detailed in Recommendations I and II of the report, is actually about taking action in the EU' s own interests, which, as far as that goes, does not damage the legal interests of the Member States; on the contrary, it protects them, at least indirectly.
2077	The compatibility with the various national systems of law, as confirmed by experts, shows that criminal law is another area where Europe has a great deal in common, for example where the significance of the offences we have been discussing here is concerned.
2078	Taking these aspects into account, I consider it appropriate that we create a framework of this kind, as proposed, and I also consider it necessary to the further development of OLAF.
2079	Mr President, will a European Public Prosecutor be able to abolish football fraud involving EU funds?
2080	I do not believe so.
2081	On the other hand, we can go a long way using the existing tools.
2082	An alternative to the European Public Prosecutor could be Eurojust, as proposed at the last Summit.
2083	In the way it is structured, Eurojust should correspond to Europol and support investigations into crimes.
2084	It is just such practical cooperation there is a need for.
2085	OLAF, Europol and the Treaty on Extradition and Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters should be used fully and, when the Fraud Convention from 1995 is at long last ratified in the Member States, we can also achieve a lot with this.
2086	I nonetheless agree with the rapporteur that it is quite unacceptable that most Member States should still not have ratified this Agreement.
2087	It is simply too bad, and I can well understand why people are becoming impatient and demanding that we have a common European Public Prosecutor' s Office instead.
2088	However, it would be quite a mammoth task to establish such an Office.
2089	It is, after all, only the most serious crimes which would have consequences under criminal law.
2090	Ninety per cent of cases would be disciplinary matters concerning negligence or incompetence.
2091	Instead, there is a need for proper internal control and the ability to sack people more easily.
2092	We should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and, especially, change our practice.
2093	At the moment, Article 52 of the staff regulations concerning dismissal on the grounds of gross negligence is never used.
2094	Should we not make a point of cleaning up our own act and putting our own house in order before we plunge into constructing grand new institutions!
2095	Mr President, we all want to do something about combating European fraud.
2096	But the question is now: is the European Union doing anything about it as well?
2097	The answer to this is that we know very little about this.
2098	The Tampere Summit was about combating crime.
2099	Everyone was supposedly pleased about it but, in reality, we have made little progress.
2100	There is no European anti-fraud legislation in force because the Member States, as was stated before, have not ratified the treaty texts submitted.
2101	So a great deal has to be done in this area.
2102	And what exactly should be done?
2103	Two things, and Mrs Theato' s report clearly spells these out.
2104	Firstly, the same penalty clauses regarding European fraud must apply in all Member States of the European Union.
2105	So, unification in this small area.
2106	Secondly, we should indeed set up a European Public Prosecutor' s Office with two tasks, firstly to assist the national public prosecutors, helping bring criminal proceedings in European fraud cases and, secondly, to supervise Europol and OLAF in a judicial sense because these are two criminal investigation services which can operate at the moment without any judicial supervision.
2107	The European Public Prosecutor' s Office is nothing to be afraid of. I feel there is a lot of scaremongering going on.
2108	It is, in fact, something very positive.
2109	Just like Europol.
2110	Europol, involving police cooperation, does not rank above the national police forces, but is there for the purpose of exchanging information between police forces.
2111	This is exactly the task which a small, limited, European Public Prosecutor' s Office should carry out, not just at the criminal investigation stage, but also at the prosecution stage.
2112	Parliament supports this.
2113	The Committee of Wise Men supports this.
2114	I urge the Council of Ministers and the European Commission to do the same.
2115	Mr President, I want to concentrate on the issue of corpus juris.
2116	I would very much like to support what Mrs Morgan said on this issue.
2117	Corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation.
2118	The idea of a European Public Prosecutor on the continental inquisitorial model with overriding jurisdiction throughout EU territories would have a major impact on the traditional systems both in Ireland and the UK.
2119	The idea of a single criminal code and the European Public Prosecutor is something which Member States have a right to be informed about.
2120	Indeed when the plan was initially drawn up they said it would be restricted to cases of fraud against the EU budget.
2121	But when corpus juris was actually launched in 1977 in San Sebastian - to a very select audience of 140 jurists, with no media invited - the President of the European Parliament at the time, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, said that he considered it embryonic and that the intention was to extend EU competence in criminal matters to all areas of criminal activity.
2122	We need a public debate on this.
2123	We need the Member States and the citizens in the Member States to be properly informed.
2124	The issue of the threat to the traditional legal system in Ireland and the UK needs to be addressed.
2125	There needs to be much more openness and transparency on this issue than there has been to date.
2126	It is unacceptable that something like this has been foisted on the Member States of the EU without any proper public debate.
2127	Mr President, on behalf of the Italian Radical Members, I abstained on this text in the Committee on Budgetary Control, because I share the concerns that have been voiced, in such an authoritative way, by the representative of another legal culture which is certainly important: common law.
2128	With this text we are undoubtedly forcing the issue, since we believe that there are points that must be resolved and it is important for Community fraud to be curbed, to be crushed.
2129	Nevertheless, the way in which our committee intends to see this text through, with the drive and stubborn desire of its Chair, Mrs Theato, will not be without its critics.
2130	Another major criticism of the text concerns secondary law.
2131	Article 280 of the Treaty allows the Council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud.
2132	Nevertheless, we are left feeling slightly perplexed that they envisage an institution which will mean higher quality, without immediately planning how to deal with the repercussions of this. That is to say, they are neglecting the area of defence and therefore the possibility for the prosecution and the defence to work together effectively within such an important legal system.
2133	We wanted to express our perplexity as regards these points by abstaining in committee.
2134	Mr President, we need to speak our minds on this subject in the European Parliament, during the plenary sittings and in the committees, even if it is obvious that the debate must take into account the world of the culture, the legal culture and the places where institutional issues are addressed.
2135	We find ourselves dealing with some very serious events, which in the past seemed to be the norm.
2136	Today, something has changed, at least in terms of mechanisms, and especially as regards monitoring, but we are still not satisfied, particularly if debates are held in competent fora that go as far as to discuss a European Public Prosecutor, crimes, fraud, the misappropriation of funds and the disclosure of confidential information pertaining to one' s office at European level.
2137	I feel that we must clearly safeguard the Community' s interests, its image and its relationship with taxpayers, who are an indispensable and essential part of Community life.
2138	For this reason, it is right to look at the issue of safeguarding common interests, and to establish better links with legal systems within the individual States.
2139	In this respect, we are faced with the most sensitive issue: what role would a European Public Prosecutor play in relations with the individual national communities and their domestic legal systems?
2140	This issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms.
2141	Today, we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country.
2142	Mr President, I would very much just like to add to two particular points.
2143	Firstly, I would not wish to take up the philosophical issues of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of Member States, although I am very much in favour of having such a debate, for my regular viewing of British television programmes has shown me what the national politicians are conjuring up there in the way of threats posed by the continent to the home-grown legal system.
2144	Sometimes it is worthy of satire and merits discussion, but I digress.
2145	The point I want to make relates to Mrs Theato' s report.
2146	I believe that as far as the judicial difficulties are concerned that we are facing here - and the European Union evidently has only very limited room for manoeuvre when it comes to making these offences litigable as European criminal offences - we have become embroiled in legalities.
2147	I am referring to Recommendations 1 and 2. After all, there is no longer mention of a European Public Prosecutor, rather, for legal reasons it has now become an independent, European authority, or "body" to quote Mrs Theato.
2148	We obviously have difficulties there with regard to the legal basis.
2149	We also face difficulties with regard to offences.
2150	Nothing has changed there.
2151	As has always been the case, there are offences that transcend European offences, as it were, or at least there is the potential for them to do so, and these might include money-laundering, receiving stolen goods, and forming a criminal organisation.
2152	As far as that is concerned, I believe there are judicial uncertainties that need to be overcome.
2153	What Parliament needs to do as a matter of urgency though - and this is why we intend to vote for recital 1 without these recommendations - is to send out a clear political signal to the Commission and Council that we want to see a clear legislative act put an end to this disorderly state of affairs.
2154	Mr President, for years, Parliament has called for specific and uniform protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests.
2155	Frustration inevitably sets in when we see the weakness of the Convention (and of the protocols relating to this protection) which, five years after being signed, has still not been ratified and has still not come into force.
2156	On the other hand, more pro-active attempts, such as OLAF, which is currently operating, have not allayed legitimate concerns about the system of guarantees for individual rights.
2157	The proposals in Mrs Theato' s report seek to encourage the Commission to present a substantive legislative measure on the protection, under criminal law, of our financial interests, which would criminalise certain activity, specifically fraud against the Community budget. These proposals represent a serious attempt to establish a new and ever more urgently-needed uniform criminal law for the whole Community.
2158	At the same time they call for the existence of an independent body to coordinate and monitor the thoroughness of investigations by OLAF, without harming the administration of justice by each Member State and under the supervision of the European Court of Justice.
2159	Finally, following on from what was agreed in Tampere, the report restates the need for a European Public Prosecutor. This issue has been brought once again to the fore by Commissioner Vitorino' s timely decision to ask the IGC to include in its agenda the creation of this new role, which everyone considers vital.
2160	We should approve this report because it highlights the need to maintain efficient legal control over our institutions, by protecting the Union' s financial system with a substantive and procedural European law which is capable of maintaining the credibility of the Community' s economic life.
2161	Nevertheless, it raises some very basic questions.
2162	Is there currently a sufficient legal basis for justifying, in legal terms, the creation of a specifically Community-wide criminal law which, although it might be called subsidiary, will always clash with the practice, and in certain areas, with the traditional, separate criminal law of the Member States?
2163	As there are doubts, would it not be more advisable, from a political point of view, to put the reform of the legal system on the IGC agenda, and incorporate these proposals into the more general reform of the Union' s legal system along the lines of what is being requested for the European Public Prosecutor?
2164	Surely these subjects will be of the greatest relevance to a revision of the treaties which will contribute to the stability of the area of freedom, security and justice?
2165	Mr President, the EU is now exposed to tough scrutiny.
2166	Confidence in the European Union has been seriously damaged. To remedy this, vigorous efforts are required.
2167	We therefore welcome increased resources for OLAF so that we can investigate any suspicions more efficiently.
2168	At the same time, we think it is obvious that those who commit crimes against the EU must be able to be held accountable in an effective way.
2169	It is unfortunate that the convention for protecting the Union' s financial interests has been put into effect in so few Member States.
2170	We therefore think it only right that the Commission should have the task of tabling proposals entailing the further development of the already existing legal framework.
2171	On the other hand, I am not convinced that making the process more efficient in this way requires common European legislation or centralisation of the fight against crime.
2172	In the present situation, I am therefore sceptical about the idea of a European prosecutor, which it is scarcely possible to implement within the framework of the present treaty.
2173	We have more confidence in Eurojust, where prosecutors from the individual nations cooperate.
2174	The major problem is not that no measures are being taken against crimes committed against the Union but, rather, that these are committed so often and far too seldom discovered.
2175	The challenge for the Commission and for ourselves is, however, to find the right mix.
2176	The mismanagement and examples of fraud which occur ought not to lead to our ending up in an old-fashioned hierarchical bureaucracy which, through an exaggerated supervision of detail, prevents the development of a modern administration.
2177	We therefore welcome the aggressive approach of Mr van Hulten' s report.
2178	The main idea ought to be that each administration takes responsibility for its own supervision.
2179	Our experience of modern administration tells us that openness, decentralisation of responsibility and qualified evaluation are often as effective as detailed bureaucratic supervision.
2180	The major challenge is, therefore, to create a modern and efficient administration without compromising on supervision and the rule of law.
2181	This requires staff training, more modern recruitment methods and, above all, openness and public control.
2182	Being able to scrutinise the administration effectively is the best protection against irregularities.
2183	Mr President, rapporteur, restoring the confidence of the citizens in the work of the European institutions and in European politics is one of the most important tasks we have before us.
2184	The Commission has given its commitment to this task and the draft for the overall package of internal reforms documents this.
2185	Parliament is committed to this task, which is something this report bears impressive witness to.
2186	On behalf of the Commission I am able to congratulate the rapporteur on having again addressed the genuinely difficult question as to what we can do, in terms of creating legal bases and effecting institutional change, to step up the fight against fraud perpetrated against the European Union.
2187	On ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty, all Member States stated that they wanted to accord combating fraud against the financial interests of the European Union the same priority as combating fraud to their own detriment. Yet as things stand, only the first four Member States have ratified the agreement concluded in 1995.
2188	The Commission wholeheartedly agrees with the rapporteur that this is an unacceptable situation
2189	A legislative act, a directive, in which there is a standardised definition for the different types of fraud such as money-laundering or corruptibility, and in which the obligation to launch criminal proceedings is enshrined as a binding objective, may enable us to take a major step forwards, and I will therefore advise the Commission to examine this step with all due haste.
2190	OLAF, the European anti-fraud office is one of the most important instruments the Commission has for fulfilling its obligation to combat fraud.
2191	Accordingly, the Commission refused to put up with the fact that both European banks, the ECB and the EIB, contested the right of OLAF to include these two institutions in its investigations, citing their independent status.
2192	This is why the Commission resolved on raising a complaint against these two banks at its last meeting, and I hope that Parliament approves this step.
2193	The second recommendation in this report relates to assessing the legitimacy of the investigative measures undertaken by OLAF in the various European institutions.
2194	It is the task of the monitoring committee for OLAF, which was set up at the same time as OLAF, to safeguard the independence of OLAF, however it cannot undertake the action mentioned in the report of monitoring internal investigative activities conducted by OLAF.
2195	I am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point.
2196	In other words, there is a loophole here which must be filled and I will examine the solution advocated in the report in the interests of moving things on.
2197	There is one thing I would ask though: I believe we must prevent the debate on extending the legal basis for OLAF from leading to the misconception that OLAF does not now have enough authority.
2198	No, there must be no undermining of OLAF' s authority, and neither do I think this was the rapporteur' s intention.
2199	As such, I would ask you to give OLAF' s work your full support, also in its present form.
2200	Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
2201	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
2202	VOTE
2203	(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
2204	Heaton-Harris (PPE-DE).
2205	Mr President, on a point of order I should like to ask you for clarification of the Rules of Procedure: namely Rules 133(2) and 138(4).
2206	These are both about voting.
2207	Is it not the case that on votes other than roll-call votes, the vote should take place initially by show of hands and only then, if there is some doubt, should we utilise the electronic voting system?
2208	That is quite right, Mr Heaton-Harris. I put the matter to a vote by a show of hands because none of the groups had requested voting by roll call.
2209	You know that voting by roll call or electronic checking only takes place if Members of the House request it.
2210	In this particular case, I can assure you there was a large majority in favour of the directive which we have just voted on.
2211	Mr President, I was not referring to that particular vote but to votes in general.
2212	It is obvious that some presidents do not look at the hands, so to speak, but go straight to the electronic voting system.
2213	I was wondering whether this is the correct procedure.
2214	I know it takes longer, but should we not always have a show of hands first?
2215	I shall, I assure you, Mr Heaton-Harris, pay particular attention to the show of hands.
2216	I hope to see many hands raised when the time comes to vote.
2217	Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs (codified version) (COM(1999)0113 - C4-0212/1999 - 1999/0090(COD)) (Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market)
2218	(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
2219	- Proposal for a Council regulation (EC, Euratom) implementing Decision 94/728/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (codified version) (COM(97)0652 - C4-0018/98 - 1997/0352(CNS)) (Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market)
2220	(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
2221	Procedure without debate:
2222	Report (A5-0106/1999) by Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out for the period 1 June 1999 to 31 May 2002 the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé e Principe on fishing off the coast of São Tomé e Principe (COM(1999)0550 - C5-0305/1999 - 1999/0228(CNS))
2223	(Parliament approved the legislative resolution)
2224	Recommendation for second reading (A5-0105/1999), on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the harmonisation of examination requirements for safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterways (C5-0208/1999 - 1998/0106(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr Koch)
2225	Mr President, as far as the second reading is concerned, the Commission can only accept one proposed amendment put forward by Parliament.
2226	The Commission hereby adopts this amendment and accepts it.
2227	(The President declared the common position approved (as amended))
2228	Report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road (COM(1999)0158 - C5-0004/1999 - 1999/0083(COD))
2229	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
2230	Report (A5-0108/1999) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission in the field of the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Fund: guidelines for programmes in the period 2000-2006 (COM(1999)0344 - C5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127(COS))
2231	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2232	Report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Sixth Periodic Report on the Social and Economic Situation and Development of the Regions of the European Union (SEC(1999)0066 - C5-0120/1999 - 1999/2123(COS))
2233	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2234	Report (A5-0069/1999) by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (COM(1999)0101 - C5-0105/1999 - 1999/2108(COS))
2235	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2236	Report (A5-0078/1999) by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European Commission' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy (1998) (SEC(1999)0743 - C5-0121/1999 - 1999/2124(COS))
2237	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2238	Report (A5-0087/1999) by Mr Jonckheer, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the seventh survey on state aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors (COM(1999)148 - C5-0107/1999 - 1999/2110(COS))
2239	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2240	Report (A5-0073/1999) by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No 2496/96/ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry (Steel Aid Code) (COM(1999)94 - C5-0104/1999 - 1999/2107(COS))
2241	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2242	EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Own resources
2243	.
2244	(FR) The European Union is apparently financed through four own resources.
2245	The European budget is effectively sourced from VAT and on the basis of GDP, especially now that the Community preference system has been abandoned and the multiplication of free trade areas has put paid to customs duties and the common agricultural levy, which had already been cut back drastically by the Generalised System of Preferences.
2246	Since then, Community VAT fraud and distortions in the calculation of GDP, the taxable basis for the fourth resource, have had a perceptible effect on the yield and justice of Community resources.
2247	Since then, of course, this Europe with pretensions to federalism is now more than ever financed like the commonplace intergovernmental organisation it actually is, but which it refuses to see itself as.
2248	This can be clearly seen in the regulation before us.
2249	It shows a concern with the accounting involving own resources, the process of making them available or with the monitoring of declared amounts made available to the Commission.
2250	Furthermore, the new Advisory Committee that has been created is made up of representatives of the taxpaying Member States.
2251	This is a long way from offshoots such as the "Community criminal code" , the "European Public Prosecutor" or a European police force, with OLAF.
2252	There is as yet no federal European tax.
2253	All the same, a Europe with 25 members will be wanting a European tax on income, if not on profits, or the tax on CO2 to finance the budget for 2025.
2254	Koch Report (A5-0105/1999)
2255	- (FR) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on improved harmonisation in the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods.
2256	In recent years, the transportation of dangerous goods nationally and internationally has increased considerably, increasing the risk of accidents.
2257	Some of these risks were due to an inadequate awareness of the risks inherent in such transportation.
2258	It therefore proved necessary, in the context of establishing the internal market, to adopt some measures intended to ensure better risk prevention.
2259	Directive 96/35/EC was a response to this requirement.
2260	Firms involved in the transport of dangerous goods and in the loading and unloading operations related to such transportation have been obliged, quite rightly, to comply with regulations regarding risk prevention, whether road, rail or inland waterway transport is involved.
2261	In order to facilitate achieving this objective, Directive 96/35/EC provided for the appointment of safety advisers for dangerous goods who would have appropriate professional training.
2262	This professional training would be targeted at awareness of the terms of the legislation, regulations and administrative conditions applicable to such transport.
2263	While this represented significant progress at the time, the lack of specific terms governing the harmonisation of examination requirements proved to be a problem.
2264	It therefore seemed essential to make good this omission in order to achieve the standardised, high-level training of safety advisers, but also in order to avoid any disparities between the costs of training, with a concomitant effect on competition between the firms of different Member Sates.
2265	The Commission proposal seeks to ensure that the training of safety advisers is standardised. It outlines the minimum content of examinations and defines the role of the authorising body as well as the requirements demanded of the examining bodies.
2266	Parliament voted in favour of this text. It did, however, table a number of amendments, most of which were adopted in the Council' s common position, particularly regarding the need to draw up a questionnaire and statements on the authorisation of some document in the context of the 'specification of the examination arrangements proposed by the examination body' .
2267	In order to be realistic, I further support postponing the date for the application of these conditions until three months after the directive itself comes into force.
2268	I shall conclude by emphasising that harmonising the professional qualifications of advisers will contribute to improving the quality of the service in the interest of users, to minimising the risks of accident likely to cause damage to the environment as well as significant damage liable to be harmful to any person who may come into contact with dangerous goods.
2269	Koch Report (A5-0104/1999)
2270	Last October I expressed my views on the Hatzidakis report on the transport of dangerous goods by rail.
2271	The views I shall express today are not far removed from those I had then.
2272	Essentially, my opinion is as follows: I deplore the fact that, in a field as crucial as the transport of dangerous goods, we keep putting off the adoption of harmonised standards to the detriment of human beings and the environment.
2273	I shall point out that a directive on the approximation of Member State legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road came into force on 1 January 1997.
2274	This included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 January 1999.
2275	This is the time when we should have expressed our opinion of the Commission proposal to put an end to the derogations.
2276	In line with the usual procedure, it is the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) which puts forward standards in this area, and they are then integrated in to the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road signed in Geneva in 1957 (known generally as ADR), applicable throughout Europe, whose terms and conditions form the basis for the legislation applicable within the EU.
2277	The CEN has been unable to complete its work in the time allotted. Consequently, the Commission proposal under discussion today is intended to amend the directive in order to provide a short-term solution to these problems, rather than to put an end to the transitional arrangements, as should have been the case!
2278	This is exactly what happened in the case of transport of such goods by rail, except for the fact that a time limit had been decided.
2279	Right now we do not have the slightest idea as to when the CEN will be in a position to put forward practical proposals.
2280	Until then, there is really no point in Member States amending their national regulations.
2281	The report also accepts that some flexibility may be adopted, and grants States the option of adopting or applying alternative standards.
2282	They may, therefore, continue to enforce their own standards regarding certain types of pressure vessel used for transportation, where there are no applicable European standards.
2283	They may also adopt alternative conditions for transportation of a local nature and for ad hoc transportation.
2284	In offering this explanation of my vote, therefore, I wished to express my deep dissatisfaction and my deep concern.
2285	Schroedter Report (A5-0108/1999)
2286	Mr President, I wanted to press home my explanation of vote by this oral explanation following on from the Schroedter report with regard to regional development.
2287	I would urge both the Member States and the Commission to give sufficient consideration to the huge disparities in wealth which continue to exist between the different regions in Europe.
2288	Not only the difference in income per capita but, above all, large disparities in employment continue to give cause for concern.
2289	Despite the fact that the Community, through the structural funds among others, injects considerable sums into combating the disparities between regional development opportunities in Europe, these disparities continue to exist.
2290	I therefore wonder whether the Community should not have a more drastic change of tack and, based on very strict evaluations, change its course and change its objectives in such a way as to make it possible to combat the disparities in wealth and employment more effectively.
2291	Mr President, in relation to the Schroedter report, I am aware, and have had it confirmed to me by Mr Barnier, that the rules on additionality concerning Structural Funds apply only at the level of Member States and do not apply in a transitive and transparent way inside Member States in favour of self-governing regions such as Wales or Scotland.
2292	I regard that as a very unsatisfactory state of affairs.
2293	I hope we can revisit this issue at a later time.
2294	I want it to be clear that though I voted in favour of the report, I have this important reservation.
2295	- The Schroedter report speaks of the need to promote partnerships with regard to the spending of EU Structural Funds in Europe for the period 2000-2006.
2296	I believe that this is particularly important as EU Structural Funds are always spent in a manner which maximises the economic development of different regions when local and regional authorities are involved in the decision-making process for the spending of such funds.
2297	As a Member of the European Parliament for the constituency of Leinster, I have always supported the need for the implementation of bottom-up schemes supported by national EU funds.
2298	I believe that the Irish Government and the European Commission and different EU governments cannot alone decide on specific spending priorities.
2299	I believe that local authorities and groups from the private and voluntary sector should be fully involved in the decision-making process for the spending of European Structural Funds.
2300	For example, we have seen the success of the Leader I and Leader II schemes in Ireland in terms of the jobs which have been created through the administration of these programmes in rural parts of Ireland and within Europe.
2301	The Leader III scheme is set to be implemented some time later this year.
2302	The Leader programme at its core affords an opportunity for public, private and voluntary groups to pool their collective talents so as to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
2303	This is a classic example of how the partnership concept operates and such schemes must be supported in its broadest remit.
2304	The European Peace and Reconciliation Fund has also been a success in creating jobs in border counties in Ireland.
2305	Once again, there is active participation from groups from the private, public and voluntary sectors which suggest how best particular funding can be spent so as to help different local job creation projects within this region.
2306	During the next round of EU Structural Funds 2000-2006, other EU initiatives such as "Equal" and "Urban" will be operating.
2307	These initiatives must also involve the participation of local authorities and local communities in an effort to identify where best European Structural Funds should be spent.
2308	The rapporteur refers to the need to implement an integrated approach to new EU Structural Fund plans and programmes. They must promote a decentralised, efficient and comprehensive partnership based on the skills and commitment of all sectors in regional and local authorities.
2309	This is very sensible because key economic and social difficulties in our country cannot be overcome unless there is key integration between national, European and local funding.
2310	.
2311	(FR) This report takes us back to the question of why we even have a regional policy.
2312	In order to reduce disparities between regions, of course.
2313	But more especially because, even though at first sight the European market guarantees us improved functioning of the economy, it may also be a source of inequality.
2314	Jacques Delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities.
2315	It is precisely this phenomenon of solidarity which lies behind the European social model, which we are all in favour of, and which gave rise to the idea of economic and social cohesion.
2316	This is a real political objective, alongside economic and monetary affairs, drawn up in collaboration with Member States, regions and local communities, with the Commission itself responsible for issuing guidelines in order to show Member States what direction to take in order to achieve the objectives required in the context of programming.
2317	This is why I shall support this report, despite regretting the fact that, for timetabling reasons, the European Parliament was only consulted at a very late date on the guidelines intended to assist Member States, regions and local communities in the programming of Objectives 1, 2 and 3.
2318	Moreover, I would also urge this House to take into consideration the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, adding a whole raft of thoughts on key areas such as combating social exclusion, support for the social economy and the implementation of the employment strategy.
2319	Mrs Schroedter' s report marks a further step towards the transparency and effectiveness of structural aid.
2320	It highlights the increasing vital role of all the parties involved, chiefly those involved at a local level, who are the only ones able to define specific requirements and social problems, hence our determination to ensure that the partnerships to be established are true partnerships, which are decentralised and involve all the agents concerned.
2321	This is the reason for the request which we are putting forward again to establish a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, which would coordinate the implementation and administration of aid.
2322	In order to do so, the monitoring committees must be opened to include Members of the European Parliament, associations and industrialists concerned by the projects and also civil society.
2323	These guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of Community structural aid.
2324	Amended again as such by the Schroedter report, they are a step in the right direction.
2325	They also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006, but that is another subject.
2326	In the meantime, let us support this first step.
2327	- This report calls for drastic cuts in the level of illegal state aid dished out by some Member States.
2328	Although I wholeheartedly support this aim, I would much rather see such aid eliminated altogether.
2329	In my mind, illegal state aid amounts to little more than state-sponsored social dumping.
2330	We all oppose social dumping when perpetrated by fat cat industry, we must also oppose it when perpetrated by governments.
2331	If we are to have an effective single market that makes European industry globally competitive and generates wealth and employment for all Europeans, then we must have a level playing field.
2332	Illegal state aid, by contrast, destroys competitive companies and creates unemployment.
2333	There are, of course, cases when state aid can be necessary and legitimate, for example helping companies restructure.
2334	In all such cases, however, strict criteria must be met and prior approval from the European Commission gained.
2335	Whether we are talking about beef to France or about backhanders to industry, EU Member States must not be allowed to flout the law.
2336	I enthusiastically support the report's proposal to publish a "scoreboard" showing the amount of state aid per Member State.
2337	Countries that claim to be at the heart of Europe but which systematically break its rules should be named and shamed and their hypocrisy revealed.
2338	Member States cannot be allowed to proclaim European solidarity in public while trying to undermine the single market in private.
2339	I take some mild encouragement from the fact that levels of state aid to industry in Europe appear to be falling.
2340	Much remains to be done, however, and I call on the Commission to be far tougher in exposing the subsidy junkies of Europe.
2341	.
2342	(PT) The Commission' s main instruments for overcoming regional disparities are the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. It is therefore crucial that the European Parliament drafts its broad indicative guidelines without threatening the principle of subsidiarity, given that establishing the development strategy for each country falls to the respective Member States.
2343	Unfortunately, the European Commission has already moved ahead with its guidelines and Parliament' s position on the programmes for 2000-2006 does not carry much weight.
2344	It is nevertheless important to reiterate the need for the main priority of these funds to be the development of the countries and regions with the greatest problems and of the outermost regions, of which the Portuguese regions of the Azores and Madeira are examples. This must be done with the objective of achieving economic and social cohesion.
2345	The truth is though, that the Commission' s guidelines do not fully meet these objectives.
2346	On the other hand, it is crucial that there are precise indications and sufficient funds in areas such as creating decent jobs - with rights - effectively promoting equality in law and opportunity, and supporting the social economy and solidarity. There must also be support for rural development, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for improving the quality of life of urban populations in deprived areas, specifically in the field of social housing, with a view to achieving sustainable urban development.
2347	. (IT) While Article 158 of the EC Treaty aims to promote the harmonious development of all of the Communities, we must say that the goal of eliminating disparities is still a long way from being fulfilled, or rather in some cases, as with Italy' s Objective 1 zones, paradoxically, disparities are being exacerbated, particularly because of the continuing weak approach of the structural apparatus to Community procedures and the persistent muddle of procedures; despite the changes to the rules, the Community structures have not yet been streamlined.
2348	In the first place, if administrative procedures are not simplified, it will be hard to attain Community objectives on reform, with a view to greater efficiency and concentration.
2349	In this respect, the Commission document has shortcomings, as it makes no recommendation to the Member States to simplify procedures and national legislation for the presentation and examination of projects by the national authorities, and for their funding, execution and monitoring.
2350	SMEs, micro-enterprises and craft businesses in particular are still "weak operators" , given that it is precisely for them that the regulatory and administrative constraints imposed by some Member States, including Italy, are major obstacles to accessing Structural Funds.
2351	In view of this, in accordance with the decision on the 97/99 guidelines (Howitts report), the Commission should have consulted Parliament in time. In fact, it found a sort of convenient excuse in the shortening of the programming stage in the Member States, and it published the guidelines back in July 1999, even before the new Parliament had taken up its legislative duties, thereby preventing Parliament itself from having any influence on the current content of the guidelines.
2352	This is why the mid-term review, provided for under Article 42 of Regulation 1260/99, will be of considerable importance.
2353	In general, the current guidelines cannot be considered as clear or transparent.
2354	They merely touch on the - nevertheless important - issue of the possibility of assessing the progress made in relation to verifiable objectives which are completely consonant with the strategies followed in Community policies, and they do not pay enough attention to the implications of enlargement, so much so that they do not contain specific provisions or clarifications as regards either regional and national authorities, or candidate countries.
2355	That said, the differing approach adopted in the guidelines, which are not geared to geographical objectives, but rather to policy areas, can be considered as positive.
2356	While in theory this may meet the need for concentration and therefore the efficiency of interventions, we cannot help wondering whether the current situation of the Objective 1 zones allows, in practice, a policy of integrated interventions, for which an operational instrument to coordinate the appropriations is necessary.
2357	We could then, theoretically, also support the Commission' s call for a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, with the task of coordinating the implementation and administration of structural assistance there,provided that this unit does not become a centralising instrument at supranational level, but guarantees real help for those zones - and I stress this once again - which, owing to a whole string of converging negative factors, have not yet harnessed Structural Funds to sufficient levels, with the result that replacing the geographical objective with policy areas could, in fact, amount to a negative intervention.
2358	The guidelines, as adopted by the Commission, are very limited because, instead of meeting the aim of providing guidance, they are providing a shopping list of possible measures, a shopping list which, as it fails to set priorities in ascending order, could even put the Member States on the wrong track by guiding them towards a series of proposals that is at odds with the desired concentration.
2359	We could say that, in this state of affairs, we have once again missed the opportunity to really strengthen sustainable urban development by ring-fencing ever-increasing urbanisation and, hence the destruction of the countryside.
2360	There has been no appropriate assessment of the importance of the global grant instrument, which could prove to be extremely useful in redressing the balance between urban and rural zones and, moreover, would accord proper status to local bodies which, being independent, could bring about the conditions for territorial development more quickly, and make a practical contribution to the efforts to reform the Structural Funds and to achieve the objectives of efficiency, concentration and administrative reform.
2361	Rural areas must truly be seen as a resource which should be increasingly invested in, by encouraging young people to remain in rural areas in order to prevent their economic and social disintegration.
2362	It is now a fact that in order to attain this goal, rural areas need to see the creation of new jobs, which are no longer solely connected with agriculture, in the traditional sense - although this sector is important for the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity - but also, for instance, in rural tourism, sport and cultural activities, environmental projects, SMEs, services, and so on.
2363	A genuine flaw in the guidelines are specific guidelines for the orchestration of coordination between the ESF and employment strategy. The fact that this coordination is being put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme period implies that the Member States really do need "guidelines".
2364	I must also stress that once again the Commission is, in fact, skirting the issue of practical action on equal opportunities.
2365	In conclusion, the document is not particularly satisfactory, and in some aspects is disappointing.
2366	Berend Report (A5-0107/1999)
2367	.
2368	(PT) We basically agree with the assessment and the thoughts put forward by the rapporteur concerning the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union.
2369	We shall therefore confine ourselves to highlighting a few issues.
2370	Firstly, and as the Commission itself states, it must be understood that the great improvement seen by some of the poorest regions in their per capita GDP between 1991 and 1996 was largely due to the inclusion of the new German Länder in calculating the Community average from 1991 onwards. This obviously caused a slight reduction in the Union' s per capita GDP level.
2371	We also feel that it is particularly important to state that the recovery seen in some regions - where it did actually take place - was accompanied only to a limited extent by growth in employment. This consequently imposes the need for new development strategies, with a considerably greater level of attention needing to be paid to this area.
2372	This situation shows that it would be a mistake to leave adopting measures for promoting employment to the exclusive internal control of the Member States, which is what the report proposes.
2373	Finally, but no less importantly, I would like to refer to the rapporteur' s proposal that, in future, this type of report should also include, amongst other issues, an analysis of the way cohesion is developing between the regions within each State.
2374	The huge variety of situations and the varying development seen from region to region within the same State mean that there is a need for an in-depth assessment of this issue. This kind of assessment would enable us to allow and guarantee corrections to regional (and other) policies with a view also to guaranteeing internal cohesion within each Member State.
2375	. (FR) The Berend report gives us an interesting analysis of the situation and economic development of the regions of the European Union.
2376	Nonetheless, the French members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group feels it cannot approve some of the statements made therein.
2377	Paragraph 26, for example, "Draws attention to the special need to consolidate the budget as a prerequisite for the success of economic and monetary union and the enlargement of the Union" .
2378	At a time when, in order to fulfil the convergence criteria, Member States are forced to undergo a strict budgetary slimming regime, one that would be perfectly justified if they undertook it of their own initiative, the federalists are displaying an astonishing pecuniary gluttony.
2379	As an admission of the failure of the cohesion policy and EMU, the lack of results is put down to the lack of money, with everyone competing in eloquence to demand more and more appropriations without anyone asking questions about the effectiveness of the money spent.
2380	What can one say about a budgetary procedure which involves setting objectives for expenditure rather than a ceiling on expenditure and trying at all costs to find projects in order to spend the approved appropriations, rather than allocating the appropriations to existing projects?
2381	Expenditure becomes an end in itself, evidence of the success of a programme.
2382	The statistics published by the European Commission in its sixth report do however show, as Mr Berend pointed out, the limitations of the policy being implemented:
2383	The relative weight of the most wealthy regions of the European Union was strengthened between 1986 et 1996, testifying to a concentration of wealth, jobs and activity in certain areas: Hamburg, Brussels, Antwerp, Luxembourg, the Paris region, Darmstadt, Oberbayern, Bremen, Vienna, Karlsruhe and Emilia-Romagna.
2384	Quite the opposite of what the rapporteur stated, the establishment of economic and monetary union should exacerbate the exodus of population from the most outlying, the most rural and the least populated regions in favour of the central axes of the Union (the Benelux countries, North West Germany, Northern Italy, the Parisian region, etc).
2385	The poorest regions are gradually making good their underdevelopment.
2386	In 1986, the average of the 10 poorest regions amounted to 41% of the overall Community GNP. In 1996 it was 50%.
2387	Progress is particularly marked in Portugal and Ireland.
2388	In fact, if the rich are ever more wealthy and the extremely poor are less poor, then it seems that the middle-range regions, covered by Objective 2, are experiencing an occasionally significant downturn in their GNP, and a worsening of the employment situation.
2389	This phenomenon is particularly marked in France: the GNP of the Champagne-Ardennes region, which it is my honour to represent, has gone from 105% to 94% of the Community average, that of the Loire region has dropped from 95% to 91%, and that of the Auvergne from 89% to 83%.
2390	This is a generalised tendency, sparing neither the Rhône-Alpes, nor Alsace.
2391	It has been confirmed in Sweden and Finland, countries where unemployment has in fact increased to a worrying degree over the last few years, as in many regions of the United Kingdom.
2392	It may therefore seem strange that, when the Structural Funds were reformed, Objective 2, dedicated to industrial and rural areas undergoing economic restructuring, should have been sacrificed in favour of Objectives 1 and 3. For the period 1999-2006, the total appropriation for this Objective will be ECU 22.5 billion, a figure more or less identical to that for the period 1994-1999.
2393	The rural regions eligible under Objective 5b will be included among the main victims of this situation: in France, 27% of the populations eligible for Structural Funds are going to lose their eligibility at the end of the transition period, a figure which is occasionally much larger in some regions such as the Loire region, Alsace or Lower Normandy, political strongholds of the right-wing that were the victims of the petty political vote chasing of the left-wing coalition government.
2394	Based as it is on such choices, it is to be doubted whether regional policy can contribute to harmonious regional planning within the Member States of the European Union.
2395	von Wogau Report (A5-0069/1999)
2396	. (FR) Considering the employment situation in the Community and the European Union' s declared ambition to steadfastly attack unemployment, the analysis of mergers carried out by the Commission should take elements other than competition into consideration.
2397	As an example I would give the restructuring of ABB Alsthom Power. A sizeable delegation of employees of this firm from throughout Europe is visiting Strasbourg today.
2398	The management of ABB Alsthom Power, following a merger carried out in June 1999, announced restructuring where there is already the prospect of layoffs in a number of countries.
2399	This damaging situation for employment raises many questions, particularly regarding the information given to the European Works Council, in existence since 1996.
2400	It suggests that the Community directive on European Works Councils must be updated and strengthened.
2401	It also requires the monitoring of mergers taking employment, the environment and consumers into consideration.
2402	Since the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did not go far enough in this respect, I abstained.
2403	.
2404	(PT) By proposing to apply the principle of subsidiarity in Community competition policy, the Commission is devolving to national authorities and courts the responsibility to take decisions and deal with abuses of dominant positions in relation to company agreements which create market distortion. Issues of mergers and state aid however, still remain within the notification system.
2405	The position that has now been adopted aims to create more rapid ways of applying competition policy, moving towards applying Community law in national courts rather than at the European Court of Justice, and even aims at having specialised courts.
2406	This partial renationalisation of competition policy could involve higher costs for Member States.
2407	On the other hand, as the rapporteur points out, in the name of competition policy, public monopolies are often exchanged for private monopolies, with the privatisation of important industries and public companies, as has happened in Portugal, with harmful consequences for the country and its workers.
2408	- (FR) The Commission' s White Paper on the modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (now 81 and 82) certainly does not propose any "renationalisation" of competition policy, as some Members of the European Parliament fear.
2409	But it does, at least, make it possible to anticipate some rather interesting options for development of the European Union.
2410	In fact, taking note of the congestion of its services due to the prior notification system of state agreements likely to cause distortions in trade, and afraid of seeing the number of notifications increase yet further with the arrival of new Member States, the Commission is proposing to do away with the prior notification system of such agreements, and to apply competition rules at Member State level in a more decentralised fashion.
2411	The most remarkable thing, in my view, is the message conveyed by this proposal: that the Commission is anticipating the consequences of enlargement and realising that this necessarily, and virtually automatically, requires reform of the centralised system.
2412	Admittedly, this reform is one of increasing flexibility rather than dismantling.
2413	Indeed, the White Paper envisages that the Commission will retain the supervision and central direction of the new system.
2414	Moreover, the von Wogau report, which the European Parliament has just voted on, supports it in so doing.
2415	But at the same time, one can clearly see that the upheaval caused by enlargement may lead to Community competences being limited and subsidiarity being extended.
2416	It is a quite different Europe which is taking shape in the long term.
2417	Is this not, indeed, what is so distressing to some Socialist Members of the European Parliament?
2418	The German Social Democrats voted against the von Wogau report because, in their view, it might break up European policy on competition, which is to say, in plain terms, attacking the standardising superstate.
2419	Curiously, a number of employers agreed with them, preferring the European "one-stop" system, which they consider to be more economical and more stable legally.
2420	Indeed, this is one advantage of the present system.
2421	But, on the other hand, the wider view must also be taken, namely that the initial decentralisation which has been begun today may, in the long term, lead to greater freedom to take the requirements of each country into account, and this will be of benefit to everyone.
2422	Rapkay Report (A5-0078/1999)
2423	The Members of Parliament from the Lutte Ouvrière Party shall not be voting in favour of these reports on European competition policy.
2424	Competition is a war which has major concerns fighting each other, which constantly takes the form of layoffs, factory closures, not to mention extensive waste of production capacity.
2425	We see a further example of this with the planned layoffs in Europe proposed by the corporation ABB Alsthom Power.
2426	Eighteen million unemployed and 50 million poor people within the European Union, despite its being one of the wealthiest regions in the world: these are the results of this competition which the European institutions intend to promote.
2427	The Commission' s declared intention to regulate the conditions of competition on the European market is ridiculous, for the only law which competition respects is the law of the jungle where the most powerful squash or devour the weakest elements.
2428	This is repulsive most of all in social terms.
2429	The European Commission' s report is a blunt demonstration of the fact that the Union institutions have no interest in anything except the major capitalist corporations who are engaged in this economic warfare and have no interest in the victims this causes.
2430	There is nothing to prevent the spread of unemployment, nothing to protect employees, nothing to prevent the major concerns driving part of the population into poverty simply to make their shareholders richer still!
2431	We acknowledge that this report does have one good point - it shows that the working class majority in society can expect nothing from the European institutions in terms of safeguarding their living conditions, and still less of improving them.
2432	- (FR) In voting against this report, we are acting as spokespersons for all the men and women who in Seattle and throughout Europe expressed their rejection of a world reduced to strict commercial logic.
2433	We are voting against this report on behalf of the development of public services, in memory of the victims of the Paddington rail disaster, killed not by fate but by an absurd determination to have competition where there should instead be regulations.
2434	This report is essentially a primitive text with no inspiration other than the law of the jungle, for it is not competition that can solve the problems facing humanity at this turn of the century.
2435	Whether it is a matter of the balance of the biosphere, culture or cooperation with the third world, excessive competition is a factor increasing regression and insecurity.
2436	Do you imagine that the 18 million unemployed people in Europe are victims of too reticent an application of this competition policy?
2437	We are convinced that the opposite is true, and we do not think that state aid is by definition excessive.
2438	Excessive in comparison with what iron rule, what criteria of efficiency?
2439	Finally, after Seattle, do you really think you can advocate increasing the role of the WTO?
2440	Only the legal advisers to multinationals could demonstrate such stubbornness.
2441	Jonckheer Report (A5-0087/1999)
2442	I am pleased to see the quality of the seventh report on state aid within the EU, and to see that it will henceforth be an annual report, and also that the Directorate-General for Competition will be making information, both general and specific, publicly accessible via its website.
2443	I am happy with the rapporteur' s treatment of state aid and I congratulate him on this.
2444	There is too often a tendency to criticise state aid harshly as a measure causing distortion in competition.
2445	Admittedly, an effective competition policy is a prerequisite for the proper operation of the internal market and of economic and monetary union.
2446	However, as the rapporteur pointed out, such aid is occasionally essential and may, in addition to enabling the survival of a specific firm, make it possible to contribute to sustainable development (Article 6 of the Treaty), services of general economic interest (Article 16) and economic and social cohesion (Article 158).
2447	Clearly though, it must be monitored, a task which falls to the European Commission.
2448	The aid which Union Member States allocate each year to the sectors under consideration reached a total of EUR 95 billion in the period 1995-1997, including 40% allocated to the manufacturing sector.
2449	This aid is considerably less than the previous period, 1993-1995 (a 13% drop in the total amount and a drop from 3.8% to 2.6% in the amount of aid to the manufacturing sector).
2450	This downturn in aid is chiefly due to the reduction in aid granted to the new German Länder.
2451	Like the rapporteur, I deplore the fact that the figures given in the report do not cover all state aid.
2452	The European Commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible.
2453	It must also cooperate with the Member States in order to improve the quality of data in good time, which is to say in time for the ninth report.
2454	I think it would be a good idea if the Commission published a register specifying the amount of state aid per Member State.
2455	I also deplore the fact that the European Parliament has been totally excluded from the Advisory Committee on State Aid.
2456	In order to compensate for this situation, the European Commission should be obliged to make regular reports to us.
2457	I shall conclude with one aspect of the use of state aid which I feel is particularly dangerous: the matter of aid resulting in businesses relocating from one Member State to another, with the risk of subsidy hunting which makes no contribution to the shared objectives of the EU.
2458	This is why I should like to see the next report on state aid include some assessment of the effect of such aid on employment, industry and craft businesses in the beneficiary countries.
2459	Langen Report (A5-0073/1999)
2460	In the important debate on competition this morning, I expressed my views on Mr Langen' s report on the implementation in 1998 of the sixth Steel Aid Code.
2461	Just as the Court of Justice recognised in its order of 3 May 1996, the iron and steel industry is particularly sensitive to disturbances to its competitive operation.
2462	Establishing a system of aids to this sector intended to ensure the survival of successful firms was therefore justifiable, even though Article 4(c), of the ECSC Treaty prohibited any sort of state aid to the steel industry.
2463	This, indeed, is the purpose of the sixth Steel Aid Code.
2464	At the same time, it is, of course, essential to avoid any disturbance of competition conditions or of the markets, hence the importance of regulating such aid.
2465	It is therefore essential to continue to restrict state aid to research and development, environmental protection and aid granted in the event of plant closure.
2466	In the same way, it is vital for Member States to fulfil their obligation to report to the Commission on the aid granted to their steel undertakings, as stipulated under Article 7 of the Steel Aid Code.
2467	The Commission suggests that Member States submit their reports within a time limit of two months following the end of each six-month period or, at least, annually, without the need for reminders.
2468	Like the rapporteur, I am pleased with the Commission report, but I did deplore the fact that the report did not cover every aspect of the aid.
2469	Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way, the Commission has, on a number of occasions, authorised aid for the steel industry even though such aid did not fall within the categories set out in the code.
2470	In the interests of equality, there are grounds to either apply the Steel Aid Code strictly or modify the Code if the Commission wishes to authorise types of aid other than those legally acceptable at the moment.
2471	Finally, we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.
2472	The aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002.
2473	My feeling in this respect is that only a Council Regulation can provide the necessary legal certainty and ensure an official ban on any aid not covered by the code.
2474	For all these reasons I voted in favour of the Langen report, and I now await the Commission' s response to our requests and demands.
2475	(The sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
2476	Oil slick off the French coast
2477	The next item is the Commission statement on the oil slick off the French coast.
2478	Mrs de Palacio will open the debate on behalf of the Commission.
2479	Mr President, I shall be speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, but also as an elected representative for Brittany, and I am therefore directly concerned and shocked by these events.
2480	Together with Mrs Grossetête and the PPE-DE Group, we tabled a motion for a resolution.
2481	I am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion.
2482	The Erika shipwreck is a truly European issue, firstly because it is disfiguring and polluting some of the most beautiful beaches in Europe, with extremely serious consequences for tourism, people who earn their living from the sea and environmentalists, and also because the underlying issue is the regulation and monitoring which ought naturally to be on a European scale.
2483	A disaster of this scale could almost certainly not have occurred along the American coastline, and why?
2484	Because the Americans managed to learn their lesson from the Exxon Valdez disaster and in 1990 to draw up the Oil Pollution Act, which makes the parties concerned aware of their responsibilities, as it makes it possible to hold the charterer liable, and is more restrictive, and, more especially, more carefully monitored thanks to various regulations and, in particular, the existence of the American coastguard.
2485	If, I repeat, we had had regulations of this type, then this disaster would surely not have occurred.
2486	This is why we think that the applicable legislation must be reviewed, particularly the 1992 protocol which has exempted the shipowners, in this case the oil tanker charterer, from any liability.
2487	Well, if the charterer is exonerated, then of course he is less concerned with the inspections which oil companies are responsible for.
2488	The regulations must therefore be reviewed, and I thank you, Commissioner, for highlighting the inadequate features of current European regulations.
2489	Moreover, as you said, monitoring must above all be stepped up: that of the flag state, that of the classification societies.
2490	You told us that RINA was an Italian classification register recognised by the Commission.
2491	What are the conditions for this recognition?
2492	What guarantees are there of its reliability?
2493	You are going to commission a fact-finding mission.
2494	We await the outcome with great interest.
2495	Inspections by the maritime authorities and supervision within European ports must also be tightened up.
2496	There is a Paris Memorandum in existence, let me remind you, which stipulates a minimum for inspection, that is, one in four of the vessels putting into European ports must be inspected by the maritime authorities of the country concerned.
2497	This obligation is not respected either in France or in many other European countries.
2498	Why not?
2499	What conclusions has the Commission already drawn or what conclusions is it going to draw?
2500	I also think it essential to step up the level of inspection that the charterer is responsible for, in this case, the oil company.
2501	If the charterer' s liability entails a financial commitment, then doubtless the inspection will be enforced to a greater extent.
2502	Finally, we need some coordination of national maritime authorities in order to achieve some sort of European facility comparable to the coastguards who supervise the coasts of the United States.
2503	Firstly, I would like to thank the environment colleagues in my group who approached this particular problem jointly with their transport team. This disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area.
2504	Here we are here again in this Parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster.
2505	I could reel off the list of disasters that have afflicted this industry in my 10 years in this Parliament but I only have three minutes.
2506	Surely it is now about time that not only the Member States but that toothless tiger that is known as the International Maritime Organisation, and last but not least, the oil companies and tanker owners take on their responsibilities by acting to stop these ecological and human tragedies repeating themselves year after year.
2507	How many more Erikas do we have to endure before the powers that be deliver to us a proper port state control that is effective throughout the whole of the European Union, not just certain areas of it?
2508	How much more pollution do we have to endure before the industry delivers us tankers with segregated tanks and double holds?
2509	How many more seabirds are to die before shipping companies end the practice of cleaning their tanks at sea which, as our resolution points out, causes far more pollution than any Erika-type disaster?
2510	While I recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards, we are still faced with what our late colleague Ken Stewart used to call 'ships of shame sailing in and out of our European Union waters: rust buckets badly crewed'.
2511	We need the Member States to act quickly and decisively.
2512	We need our governments to put up the financial resources needed to give us effective control and we need them also to stop dragging their feet when it comes to maritime safety.
2513	The Erika cost no human lives but it may have ruined many human livelihoods. Just as the Sea Empress, just as the Braer did.
2514	It is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster.
2515	My group's sympathy goes out to the people of Brittany who have seen their area despoiled by this disaster, just as my group's sympathy went out to the people of West Wales and to the Shetland Islands on previous occasions.
2516	Is it not about time that we stopped expressing sympathy and started issuing enforcement notices to get rid of these ships of shame in favour of safe seas or we will be back again, later on this year, discussing a new motion for a resolution when yet another flag-of-convenience tanker sadly goes down spewing its crude oil all over the sea.
2517	The time for resolutions has passed. What is now needed is action.
2518	Sadly, I fear, the Council will yet again fail to act and we will be back in the future discussing yet another maritime and ecological disaster.
2519	Mr President, every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again.
2520	In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea, but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future.
2521	The "Erika" incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected, but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe.
2522	Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe.
2523	The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds, perhaps mainly guillemots, may have died.
2524	The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic.
2525	We all want the highest standards for ships whatever flag they may be flying.
2526	We need to enforce the regulations and ensure that the "polluter pays" principle is applied so that financial penalties and some incentives are used to put pressure on both ship operators and oil companies to ensure that best practice is introduced.
2527	I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks, but the question is, how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes?
2528	As a politician she needs to remind her officials how difficult it would be were she to have to come back to this Parliament in a year, were a similar incident, just as devastating, to take place, if some of the measures she has proposed today were simply still remaining as fine words and she had not had the chance to put them into practice.
2529	The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully.
2530	Mr President, Commissioner, I have brought you a small gift. Here is a cake of oil sent by someone living on the French island of Noirmoutier who wrote to me as follows: "With every tide, the beach is covered with heavy fuel oil which has leaked out of the Erika.
2531	With every tide, the volunteers, members of the armed forces and firemen remove great pancakes of this thick, sticky, black tar.
2532	When will we see a return to cleanliness and the end of this devastating accident?"
2533	Indeed this disaster involving the Erika, like that of the Russian vessel in Turkey, moreover, is unacceptable and intolerable at a time when the ultimate hi-tech technology is available.
2534	It is all the more unacceptable for such a thing to occur twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster, despite our saying at the time and many times since, "Never again!"
2535	It is, of course, the responsibility of policies, and therefore our responsibility, to guarantee the safety of sea transport.
2536	We absolutely have to guarantee our citizens that a disaster of this type will never happen again.
2537	But, listening to you, Commissioner, we are somewhat frustrated because anyone already involved in these matters knows that in 1992, I believe, the Commission and Parliament drew up a very interesting text which already contained all the proposals included in the resolution drawn up by the transport committee.
2538	Indeed, we must say and keep saying that the Erika is one disaster too many.
2539	This is why it is essential, as a matter of urgency, for the European Union to undertake a radical review of its directives on sea transport to make them more restrictive and to establish clear and specific regulations determining the responsibilities of the owners of the cargoes.
2540	We should be aware, for example, that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil.
2541	Why, in these circumstances, is the liability of Total as charterer not recognised?
2542	Your proposals must also include making double hulls mandatory and enforcing observance, at last, of the ban on degassing at sea.
2543	A European inspection body must be established which can monitor the condition of vessels effectively and efficiently.
2544	In addition, it is also essential for the European Union to undertake to reform the IMO, as a matter of urgency.
2545	What point is there in issuing restrictive directives if, once they are at sea, most vessels do just what they wish?
2546	Finally, a compassionate thought for all the volunteers, nature lovers and bird lovers, who spontaneously and generously are coming through to the aid of the oil-covered birds, organising rescue operation with the means available.
2547	I can testify to this remarkable work.
2548	You are no doubt aware that approximately 200 000 birds are going to die as a result of this oil slick, which is a major ecological disaster, practically unprecedented in scale.
2549	In relation to this, you are no doubt also aware how difficult it is nowadays to preserve natural species as well as natural spaces.
2550	And, on this subject, Commissioner, you did not mention how the Commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats.
2551	Once again, there will be no clearly defined party responsible.
2552	In the meantime, it is nature that is taking the rap, as always.
2553	Mr President, my group asked that this debate be set up in order to provide Parliament with an opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster, affected both in terms of their economic activities and in terms of their attachment to their natural environment.
2554	Let me, in this connection, welcome the presence in the visitors' gallery of Mrs Javette-Le Besque, spokesperson for the oil slick action group "Marée noire" , made up of men and women from the French department of Morbihan.
2555	Many volunteers from France and other European countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field.
2556	As the European Parliament, we can express our solidarity primarily by taking action in order to ensure the immediate release of emergency aid to the families affected by the oil slick and, at the same time, demanding tightening up of the quality criteria, on the European and international scale, of the regulations and standards governing the safety of sea transport, stipulating much more frequent inspection and sanctions that are a far greater deterrent to offenders.
2557	Our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers.
2558	Among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year, 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more.
2559	This is no longer tolerable.
2560	Next, we have flags of convenience.
2561	According to the International Transport Federation, over 40% of the ships wrecked in 1998 were sailing under flags of convenience, the symbol of profit and the exploitation of human beings at the expense of safety.
2562	This is no longer tolerable.
2563	Finally, there is the lack of transparency.
2564	Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility, the identity of the owners and real decision-makers as impenetrable as possible.
2565	This is no longer tolerable.
2566	In all these respects we must ensure real, significant change, including setting a time limit for the switch to new standards, including the mandatory double hull, on pain of being banned from the ports or the territorial waters of Member States.
2567	We must also ensure increased strictness both in issuing sea-worthiness certificates and in monitoring the condition and the maintenance of vessels.
2568	Finally we must ensure that all the parties responsible for disasters contribute to repairing the damage caused.
2569	I am thinking specifically of Total-Fina in the present instance.
2570	This is an approach, Mr President, which the European Union can develop with regard to the International Maritime Organisation.
2571	In so doing, it will have proved its usefulness to public opinion which, in this instance, is awaiting clear, tangible action.
2572	Mr President, Commissioner, as a Member for the French Atlantic coast, for Vendée, I should first like to express the disgust of the people who are the victims of the Erika oil slick in the face of these disasters, caused not by a natural disaster such as the hurricane which has also just struck us, but by a crime.
2573	In this emergency, in this ordeal, we have seen a magnificent display of solidarity: local solidarity, national solidarity, and intergovernmental solidarity.
2574	What the stricken populations are waiting for now, those who have lost everything, particularly among those who made their living from the sea and from tourism, those people whose businesses have been compromised for several years to come, is not for the polluters to repair the damage they have caused, but for the gears to now be set in motion to ensure that their present misfortune serves to prevent similar crimes affecting other people in future.
2575	Quite clearly, we are now paying the price for our lack of concern.
2576	Because our states, with the blessing of the Community, did not deem it useful to have its own commercial fleet and allowed meticulous shipbuilding know-how to disappear, we no longer have access to the clear traceability of vessels and we can see veritable coffin ships navigating our waters under flags of convenience, drifting according to the short-term interests of the multinationals.
2577	It is absolutely essential to put an end to this floodtide of irresponsibility, irresponsible charterers, untraceable shipowners and lenient certification companies.
2578	So today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion.
2579	Obviously, such matters should be handled at world level, but the current international regulations of the IMO are far from adequate and are far too loose, and neither our own countries nor the Community have tried determinedly to make them stricter, despite previous disasters.
2580	Admittedly, there is the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, IOPCF, but it waters down the issue of liability and sets its ceiling at a quite inadequate level, which must be reviewed.
2581	The question of flags of convenience must be reviewed within the IMO.
2582	It is up to the Members States and the Community to take the necessary initiatives to achieve this.
2583	Let me remind you that the Erika was sailing under a flag of convenience, that of a state applying for membership of the European Union.
2584	In addition, there are Community directives, but they are seldom applied, if at all, due to the insufficient number of national inspectors.
2585	This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency.
2586	A directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years, but it is making very slow progress.
2587	The Commission is displaying intolerable inertia and unacceptable shortcomings.
2588	The date when the Commission is supposed to present its communication devoted to this key issue is put off time and again. It is now scheduled for July.
2589	The terms of the regulations to be enforced must be particularly clear and strict.
2590	I shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities.
2591	Firstly, the liability of owners of oil cargoes must be clearly established and the victims of pollution incidents must be able to claim on this liability unequivocally.
2592	The best form of prevention we can offer for the future is the sure knowledge we can offer charterers that they will be heavily penalised in civil, criminal and financial terms if they are not extremely vigilant regarding the matter of the safety of the vessels they select.
2593	Secondly, the requirement of the double hull as a condition for access to Community waters must be enforced as soon as possible and cease to be put off indefinitely.
2594	Thirdly, a strict age limit on vessels to be given access to Community waters must be established in the near future.
2595	This could be of a maximum of 15 years of age.
2596	If we do not obtain a framework of Community regulations which is sufficiently clear, strict and trenchant, then those Member States that wish to do so must be allowed to take the necessary steps to protect their people and their territory, in the same way that the United States succeeded in learning the lessons of the Exxon Valdez disaster by making double hulls compulsory and banning all vessels more than 20 years old from their waters.
2597	Thus, the Erika was refused access to American waters.
2598	If the European Community had done the same, a great disaster would have been avoided.
2599	Let us ensure, Mr President, Commissioner, that this time we really do learn the lesson, even after the media hype and the shock of this House have died down.
2600	Mr President, Torrey Canyon, Olympic Bravery, Haven, Amoco Cadiz, Gino, Tanio, so many names we remember with horror.
2601	And now the Erika.
2602	Whose turn is next?
2603	Twenty one years after Amoco Cadiz, this umpteenth oil slick, the seventh since 1967, shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers.
2604	The Atlantic West Coast once again is paying a high price for their inability to react, for their capitulation to the multinationals.
2605	It is hard to understand why the French and the Europeans allow something which the Americans refuse to accept, and why Europe, normally so quick to pass environmental legislation, has chosen to overlook the matter of maritime safety.
2606	And this is the result.
2607	The Erika, a vessel flying a Maltese flag, a floating rust bucket, classed amongst the most dangerous type of oil tankers, has contaminated more than 400 km of our coastline, a case of pollution even worse than that caused by the Amoco Cadiz.
2608	As an elected representative for the Loire-Atlantique region, unfortunately, I can testify to this.
2609	There is nothing natural about these recurring disasters, they are the result of fate.
2610	They are the result of human thoughtlessness.
2611	What we have here is an ecological disaster.
2612	Only the people cut off from the harsh reality of the grass roots could have any doubt about that.
2613	It is also an economic disaster for all the people who make their living from the sea and from tourism, fishermen, oyster farmers, shellfish farmers, people who make a living from the salt marshes, shopkeepers, etc.
2614	The Erika disaster must be the last in the series.
2615	First of all, we must shed some light on this shipwreck.
2616	Why do we not appoint a parliamentary committee of inquiry or get Members of Parliament involved in the team of experts which has just been announced by the Commission?
2617	Next, as a matter of urgency, we muss pass legislation, firstly, regarding identification of the exact characteristics of goods transported.
2618	In fact, according to the experts, the oil the Erika was carrying was supposed to sink to the bottom and should never have reached the coast.
2619	We know what actually happened.
2620	Next, reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in France for vehicles more than five years old.
2621	We must regulate the use of flags of convenience, make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials, work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea.
2622	This would be a minimum requirement, I believe, on the dawn of the third millennium.
2623	Non-compliant vessels must be denied access to European waters, the responsibility of polluters, shipowners or charterers must be determined in line with the principle of the "polluter pays" , maritime supervision must be strengthened to prevent any degassing, thorough and reliable inspection of tankers must be required, an appropriate "natural disasters" budget line must be re-established for Member States and, in the meantime, Community aid released on an exceptional basis and the French departments affected by the disaster should be made eligible for Structural Funds.
2624	I have also tabled a resolution on this subject on behalf of the EDD Group.
2625	Mr President, in the course of the last few years there has been a succession of serious tanker disasters world-wide and the countermeasures taken have either been ineffective or not worth mentioning.
2626	It is particularly bad this time, not least because it has affected a major European State; an incident which could happen again at any time.
2627	We urgently require a directive if we are to reduce these risks.
2628	The 15 clearly do not suffice.
2629	These guarantee - making no claim to be exhaustive - a minimum of 3 things. No tanker or freighter fit only for the scrap heap must ever put into any harbour within the European Union again.
2630	All those involved, including the transport agent, are responsible for any ensuing damage, and these individuals are to provide satisfactory assurances.
2631	This is the only way of affording the victims the opportunity to make their claims for compensation.
2632	However, we must aim higher in the long-term, let there be no mistake about that.
2633	In other words, we need real cost-effectiveness for our entire energy supply system.
2634	Mr President, may I start by saying that I would like to thank Commissioner Palacio very much for her clear, adequate and, at the same time, very firm response.
2635	Many thanks for this.
2636	This also means that, in any case, I have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 January but also for the action points which she announced today.
2637	The Erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and European level, nature and the environment come off second-best.
2638	The damage suffered, also in ecological terms, cannot be expressed in money.
2639	Hence also this joint debate involving transport and environmental management Members.
2640	During the Christmas break, when the Dutch media received attention for the Erika disaster, I had a look, just out of interest, on the Internet to see what arrangements were, in fact, already in place for the purpose of taking relevant measures, especially after Premier Jospin had said that Europe should do more.
2641	What I learned is that, actually, there is sufficient legislation in place but the problem is the lack of supervision.
2642	Could I highlight a few points which have also been touched upon by the Commissioner?
2643	First of all, the port-state control, according to which 25% of all ships require inspection.
2644	I think that this 25% should not only be enforced but that it should also be ensured that more inspections take place.
2645	So this 25% should be increased.
2646	Furthermore, if a ship is no longer seaworthy, not only should the facts be examined, but a legal system should be introduced which states or recommends that the vessel should no longer be used.
2647	But this is not in place.
2648	Mr President, I would welcome some action in this area.
2649	Finally, as far as the technical requirements for ships are concerned, some Members have already mentioned just now that, since 1999 in the United States, ships should in any case be double-hulled.
2650	In my opinion, we should look further into this point, and I also think that the Marpol Treaty, which comes into effect in 2001, should be looked at very closely.
2651	Mr President, I would like to take a brief, critical look at the accession negotiations with Malta and would like to express my gratitude to, and admiration for, the many NGOs that have at least rolled up their sleeves in order to save animals.
2652	Mr President, we have already had this discussion so many times in the past.
2653	We have achieved nothing so far, and we have been unable to reach agreement within the European Union.
2654	That is why I will only believe that there is any point to having this debate today if what we are all saying today, and what the Commissioner has announced here, actually leads to legislation being produced; in other words, if you all go and say to your Heads of Government and Ministers: "you must push this through in the Council of Ministers" .
2655	Allow me to say first that what we are talking about is an environmental catastrophe, which also impacts on the economy and threatens livelihoods.
2656	So what are we to do now?
2657	I have no intention of talking about past events; rather I want to look to the future.
2658	What are we to do now?
2659	I will tell you a few things we should do.
2660	Of course, we need double-hulled vessels.
2661	That goes without saying, but it is something that will only work through in the medium and long term.
2662	So what do we need to happen immediately?
2663	We need technical testing of ships, that is obligatory technical testing every two years, and no ship to be operated without the accompanying certificate.
2664	We need this at European level and internationally; we need something like a TÜV, an organisation that undertakes technical testing of motor vehicles in Germany, which is compulsory every two years.
2665	If you do not have a certificate then you are not allowed to operate the vehicle.
2666	This is what we need for ships.
2667	Thirdly, we need to carry out checks on these safety and insurance certificates in the ports, that is in every port of the European Union.
2668	Any failure to produce these certificates must lead to the ship being laid up and prohibited from leaving the port, regardless of all the port charges.
2669	We must reach agreement here, in all the European Union' s ports, from Marseilles, through to Rotterdam, to Wilhelmshaven, Cuxhaven, and wherever ships drop anchor.
2670	Fourthly, we need the shipowner to bear liability, and not just to the tune of a derisory USD 12 million, but to the value of at least USD 400 million, to be covered per insurance certificate.
2671	We also need the country whose flag the ship flies to bear liability.
2672	We need to be sure that if need be, the country whose flag the ship is flying will accept liability.
2673	This would be a marvellous exercise in supervision!
2674	I can assure you that those countries awarding flags would then take great care to avoid having to accept liability.
2675	In the fifth place, we need there to be a guarantee that these demands will apply to all ships using the ports and waterways of the European Union, and incidentally, that includes the candidate countries.
2676	Last but not least, we need a long memory, for the issue of legislation will crop up on the agenda more frequently in the near future.
2677	Environmental standards will be a recurring theme.
2678	I would not like to have someone coming and saying that these requirements will lead to job losses in the ports.
2679	The unions will have something to say as will industry.
2680	A long memory will serve us well, ladies and gentlemen.
2681	I am looking at all those of you who have not exactly been at the forefront of the environmental movement.
2682	Just you go home and say: " we have not concerned ourselves with standards to date" .
2683	We need to have a long memory when it comes to the demands being made in the ports.
2684	We need to have a long memory when we say: " for once we are united, at last as far as port charges and requirements are concerned, and will not play one off against the other in the European Union."
2685	If we succeed in this then perhaps we will be better off in a few years' time!
2686	Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt expressed very many of my own thoughts.
2687	We have now obtained a first-rate enumeration of a variety of measures.
2688	But how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led?
2689	I would compare the situation with an earlier generation' s introduction of the Plimsoll line, a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels.
2690	Where is the sense of crisis which generations before us had?
2691	I consider that what we should adopt is the form of certification that Mrs Roth-Behrendt speaks about, the identification in the form of green marks on tankers which certain harbours in Europe have brought up for discussion.
2692	We must also critically examine the classification societies. I do not think that we can accept their procedures.
2693	We need independent procedures and procedures involving public control.
2694	Finally, I want to say that, when my country provides environmental aid to shipowners who wish to improve the quality of the environment, there are units within the Commission who regard this as prohibited aid to shipyards.
2695	Within the Commission, the one hand does not know what the other hand is doing.
2696	It is not an acceptable procedure that measures to improve the environment, which are in keeping with the Commission' s guidelines, cannot be taken because these are considered to constitute prohibited aid to shipyards.
2697	Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the GUE/NGL Group resolution because it denounces Total-Fina' s responsibility in this ecological disaster and I endorse the proposal that flags of convenience and the use of superannuated vessels should be prohibited, or that double hulls should be mandatory for oil tankers.
2698	I shall only add that it would be the least that Total could do to compensate for the direct and indirect damage caused by the oil slick.
2699	How can we stop similar disasters occurring in future if we do not institute draconian measures against the major oil corporations, and indeed many others who, in order to make more profit, take the risk of making the world uninhabitable?
2700	How is it possible not to be outraged when a bank refuses to divulge the names of the Erika' s owners on the grounds of professional confidentiality, without governments reacting?
2701	The crux of the problem is that all governments, and indeed all the European institutions, acknowledge the right of major corporations such as Total-Fina and its ilk to maximise profits whether it be harmful to their employees or to the environment.
2702	They accept the professional confidentiality of business and banks, even though this same confidentiality serves to conceal what are essentially criminal actions.
2703	In these circumstances, even the best resolutions will remain little more than appeals to principle which are powerless to limit the great corporations' capacity to cause damage.
2704	Mr President, I am in favour of tightening up the legislation on port state control and on classification societies.
2705	However, we must stick to the facts.
2706	The ship Erika has been investigated four times in the course of the last two years.
2707	The answer cannot lie in the number of investigations but rather in guaranteeing the rigour with which the controls are undertaken.
2708	I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls.
2709	I cannot accept this.
2710	If the Member States decide, in agreement with ourselves, that 25% of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control, then they must also make the necessary personnel available.
2711	The controls must also be carried out in such a way that the inspector does not just go on board and check whether there are any fire extinguishers missing, rather there must be materials testing, for this ship obviously broke up on account of material fatigue.
2712	This can only be detected if controls undertaken are more rigorous.
2713	It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial, but include materials testing.
2714	Secondly, I also share the Commissioner' s observations and would like to encourage her to continue down this path.
2715	If it should become apparent that one or more classification companies have provided reports by way of favours then they should be struck off the list of authorised classification companies.
2716	That is the only deterrent we have for preventing other classification companies from following suit.
2717	Mrs Roth-Behrendt, we already have a TÜV (organisation for safety testing) for ships in the form of the classification companies.
2718	There are reputable companies too.
2719	You will be familiar with some reputable companies, our French fellow MEPs will be familiar with some reputable companies, but we must look carefully at exactly which companies do not fulfil requirements, and these must be struck off the list.
2720	Finally, we should make it quite plain to Malta that if it wants to become a Member of this Community then by the time it accedes it must apply a standard in respect of registration and flag state control which completely fulfils our requirements, for the environment is a communal entity and not something that we can divide up!
2721	Mr President, I welcome the statement from the Commissioner.
2722	Having spent a lot of time at sea myself I am well aware of the sea's power and destructive force, which make a proper design and maintenance of ships and boats essential.
2723	I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker Erika.
2724	This has been an environmental disaster as well as a deplorable waste of resources.
2725	It should be noted that the oil industry, through the International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds, regards itself as liable under the 1969 Convention and its 1992 Protocol, for over 90% of the estimated cost of this incident, or some USD 170 million.
2726	This suggests to me that we should also look to the shipowners, to the flag state and the inspection authorities to shoulder their share of the responsibility.
2727	However, before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations, let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented.
2728	Better to heed calls to amend and improve existing legislation than to embark on new proposals.
2729	In that context I support calls to strengthen port state control to ensure full and effective inspection.
2730	I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels' structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions.
2731	Calls for design improvements in hull construction, especially double-hulled vessels, are sensible but take time to be implemented throughout the fleet.
2732	They are no substitute for rigorous regular inspection.
2733	Mr President, I would like to thank my Socialist colleagues, mainly in the committees on transport and the environment, who have not forgotten that this disaster also affects the fishing industry.
2734	Because, as well as the irreparable damage to the environment, the damage to the ecosystem and losses in the tourist industry, the oil slick dealt a huge blow to the fishing industry, to the conservation of marine resources, and the damaged coast lines will take years to recover.
2735	It is no accident, Commissioner, that the affected areas are always those European regions which are least developed, those which eke out a meagre existence from tourism and fishing and which, in the majority of cases, do not have any other resources.
2736	These are the same areas, Commissioner, which already have to put up with the disrespectful activities of certain shipowners who empty the bilges of their vessels off their coasts, without any control whatsoever.
2737	I come from a region, Galicia, which has suffered similar accidents in the past.
2738	Brittany and Galicia, two European 'Lands Ends' , fall constant prey to the irresponsibility of those who prefer not to comply with safety regulations and transport crude oil in vessels which in themselves constitute potential oil slicks.
2739	I therefore believe that it is necessary to act in two ways.
2740	On the one hand, by asking the Commission, within the scope of aid to the fishing industry, to implement special measures to compensate for the effects of this catastrophe on the industry in the areas affected, and also by asking them to demand, of international bodies and of themselves, tight controls on ships which sail under flags of convenience.
2741	In this regard, the current process of negotiations on Malta' s accession to the European Union must be used to ensure that this country rigorously monitors the oil tankers which sail under its flag.
2742	On the other hand, prevention is essential.
2743	Portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea.
2744	I would ask the Portuguese Presidency to study the possibility of implementing a complete strategy for the prevention of maritime accidents at European level, using all the means at our disposal - technological, structural and socio-economic - to prevent a disaster such as this from happening again in the future.
2745	Lastly, Mr President, I would like to highlight the work carried out by the volunteers and local authorities, who reminded me of old times when, as the then Mayoress, I lived through similar situations.
2746	We must thank those who, while defenceless and lacking in resources, have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions, the marine ecosystem and European fishing stocks.
2747	Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like to congratulate the Commission, and in particular Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, for her reaction to this incident, which has really shaken the whole of Europe.
2748	We, as the Committee on Transport, are prepared to discuss the Commission communication on the question of safety at sea and, of course, we are likewise prepared to discuss, at a later date, the legal implications of this communication.
2749	In addition, I should like to make a number of comments:
2750	First, the Commission was right to concentrate its investigation on the liability of RINA, the Italian shipping register, because we need to know if Community law was applied.
2751	That should be the starting point for our efforts.
2752	Secondly, apart from the shipowners' liability, it would be a good idea in such cases to examine the liability of the charterers, for example the oil companies which are also responsible for causing ecological disasters like this and, of course, for restoring the damage.
2753	Once we have done that, our reaction to the ecological disaster is fully justified.
2754	However, this should not lead us to accuse the whole merchant marine, which is an important sector of the economy, covering as it does 1/3 of transport requirements, which is why our reaction needs to be measured: strict, but correct.
2755	I have no objection to examining an amendment making Community law stricter but, as other members have stressed, we need to start with application, because there is already a legal framework at European Union level and we must not lose sight of that fact.
2756	This legal framework is fairly advanced, at least if you compare it with what is happening at worldwide level and the Member States, under the supervision of the Commission, should endeavour to ensure that Community law is actually applied.
2757	Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the unfortunate incident involving the Erika should in fact, as others have said this afternoon, constitute a decisive watershed which will see the end to this type of accident in the European Union where, since 1967, there have been seventeen accidents involving large oil tankers; more than one every two years.
2758	The economic and social damage, which we have spoken about today, in terms of the loss of jobs and fishing and tourist resources, is so great that they fully justify decisive and thorough action on the part of the Community institutions.
2759	Commissioner, I would also like to thank you for the speedy response of your department to this event and the measures which are being adopted and implemented.
2760	I trust that these measures will, in a few months, give rise to a clear and convincing legal instrument - a directive, possibly - which will put an end, once and for all, to these 21st Century pirates, who deprive us all of the wealth and beauty of the sea.
2761	I would like to comment on one of the measures to be taken, which was mentioned by the Commissioner and some of my colleagues.
2762	I am referring to the double hull, which consists of two layers of steel, with containers divided into two tanks.
2763	Commissioner, there are many experts who consider that the double hull is not sufficiently safe and propose the so-called 'ecological hull' in which case, in the event of an accident, the seawater penetrates the containers and, as a result of pressure, the oil is transferred to other tanks.
2764	Commissioner, I believe that it is time to opt for the safest technically possible measures.
2765	It is therefore not sufficient to merely reproduce the legislation in force in other countries.
2766	I believe that we can and must improve the existing legislation in this regard.
2767	Any cost-benefit analysis which truly takes into account all the harm occasioned to persons and the environment by these accidents, is bound to support this approach.
2768	Mr President, Commissioner, I think that first we should all congratulate ourselves on the procedure that has been adopted and which will lead us, after each of our respective political groups has rallied together and expressed its feelings, finally to produce a joint resolution.
2769	I think that given the dramatic circumstances, and as a matter of principle, it would be ill-advised and inappropriate to hold several votes.
2770	On the other hand, Parliament is issuing a resolution in one vote, for which we can see the agreement amongst the various speakers who have preceded me. I think that this is an opportunity to put parliamentary pressure on the doubts or evasions of a few governments and I think that we are providing the Commission with a powerful political act for the preparation of a European maritime area.
2771	I think that it is quite obvious, and this is the first conclusion that can be drawn from the Erika disaster, that public opinion would find it hard to understand that we regulate chocolate but do not regulate maritime transport.
2772	Public opinion would find it hard to understand that we talk about a common judicial area, common airspace, a common rail area and a single market, but not a common maritime area.
2773	I therefore believe that this is a project which must be opened up with the absolute will to see it followed through and followed through in concrete terms.
2774	The Commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation, in which we can set standards.
2775	I have also noted, to my great satisfaction, that even the groups advocating greater national sovereignty, or the eurosceptic groups are calling for Europe to regulate, and I think that this is in fact the right level to take action.
2776	We sometimes regulate things which could, by and large, remain subsidiary.
2777	In this area we must respond to public opinion.
2778	This is extremely important and everyone should feel concerned because we are, when all is said and done, on the global scale merely a peninsula.
2779	Therefore, once our legislation has been brought into line, we must follow this up immediately with appropriate law.
2780	We must also put in place systematic controls and finally apply the 'polluter pays' principle of responsibility which is, of course, supposed to be a deterrent.
2781	I have almost finished and I would like to say that I have personally requested a public hearing of the Committee on Transport, which would enable us to provide an immediate follow-up to the Erika case and to suggest possible future considerations.
2782	I hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing.
2783	Mr President, the oil tanker Erika, the ownership of which is veiled by accommodation addresses on Malta and probably in Italy and Greece and which was hired by Total-Fina for the transport of oil, foundered off the Breton coastline, with disastrous consequences.
2784	The implications for the environment and for the flora and fauna of the European maritime environment are enormous.
2785	The cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker.
2786	So people are doubtful about the safety of ships which carry dangerous or polluting goods.
2787	The International Maritime Organisation has issued international rules in this connection.
2788	States can carry out port inspections.
2789	In Europe, legislation is stricter and it is compulsory to inspect 25% of the incoming vessels according to the port-state control directive.
2790	However, it seems that none of the Member States meets this figure due to a lack of inspectors.
2791	It is clear that there is no lack of legislation.
2792	In my opinion, the Commissioner is quite right.
2793	Where the scheme falters is in the enforcement of existing legislation.
2794	But how are we now going to enforce this if there is indeed a lack of inspectors, esteemed European Commission?
2795	Can the Commission provide an assurance that Directive 93/75 concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods will be implemented correctly in all Member States?
2796	Should its implementation not be more strictly monitored?
2797	Would it not be beneficial, in the short term, following the Rotterdam model, to inspect according to a points system in which, for example, account is taken of the ship' s age, whether it is single or double-hulled or whether it sails under a flag of convenience.
2798	In short, to give priority to older sub-standard ships over ships which meet all quality requirements.
2799	The Erika was built at a Japanese shipyard and is single-hulled.
2800	There are four more sister ships in service at present.
2801	Construction of this type of ship was halted at the time because the risk of rusting was especially high.
2802	Some of them also sail under the Maltese flag.
2803	Are we waiting for the next accident to happen?
2804	Would sanctions not be appropriate, as the Commissioner stated, for the classification society?
2805	RINA is currently the talk of the town.
2806	Malta is entering the accession negotiations.
2807	In my opinion, the European Union can only accept Malta if it is guaranteed that the Maltese flag will sail without an accident in future.
2808	I would be grateful if you could be disciplined since we are running out of time, and this delay is going to limit the time available for Questions to the Commission.
2809	Mr President, just before I went down into the Chamber, I received an e-mail with a quite emotional description from a Swedish woman who had chosen to spend New Year' s Eve on the French coast in Brittany instead of staying at home and celebrating with her relatives.
2810	Like many other hundreds of volunteers, she had seen the destruction, washed birds and cleaned up after the people responsible who were not to be found on the coast on those evenings and nights when they really should have been required to be there.
2811	Like so many others, I too wonder where the people responsible are.
2812	Where are the shipowners and those who order the shipments when these disasters occur?
2813	Perhaps it might be time for us to begin to consider establishing a common environmental authority which could deal with this type of crime.
2814	This is not the first time we have seen oil slicks, whether intentional or unintentional.
2815	(The President cut the speaker off)
2816	I would like to thank Mrs Grossetête and her colleagues for bringing this motion before Parliament.
2817	The environmental disaster of the sinking of the Erika off Brittany and the spillage of 10 000 tonnes of oil has been widely reported in the British media.
2818	Although Britain and France have had their differences recently, I can assure you that there is considerable sympathy in my country for all those affected.
2819	TV pictures of the damage done to your coastline and wildlife, in particular birds and the already dwindling fish stocks, have brought back memories of similar British disasters, such as the Torrey Canyon in 1967, and have prompted many British volunteers to help.
2820	I salute these joint efforts to repair the damage.
2821	This is clearly a problem for all EU coastlines which will require imaginative solutions.
2822	Instead of allowing the costs of these disasters to fall on the communities most affected and insurance markets such as Lloyds of London, we must develop new technologies to retrieve from the sea much more than 10% of the lost oil.
2823	There is currently little financial incentive for this when the insurance market picks up the tab.
2824	Ultimately, the polluter must pay.
2825	In addition we must build on the Council directive dealing with enforcement of international standards for ship safety and pollution prevention by ensuring that the inspection goal of 25% of ships calling at EU ports is met and that a high standard of inspection is delivered.
2826	Moreover, although I am not opposed to shipowners registering their vessels in their country of choice, I believe there is a need for stricter application of international regulations.
2827	Rather than banning flags of convenience, which would violate the right of every sovereign state to have a merchant fleet, under the 1995 EU directive on port state control, national maritime authorities must impose more effective sanctions on flag states which fail to carry out their international treaty obligations.
2828	I sincerely hope that, particularly during the French presidency later this year, the Commission and the Council will look carefully at all these options, and I heartily commend this resolution to Parliament.
2829	Mr President, it feels quite strange to be standing here again today, as I have been doing at regular intervals for almost ten years, and all because of an accident caused by human hand and by a lack of human competence, and not by force majeure.
2830	The victims are waiting outside.
2831	They want answers.
2832	They do not want any more promises that we then fail to keep, or to see any efforts that we then fail to follow through.
2833	The citizens are right to ask: "do our regions now count amongst those which are lost forever?"
2834	Who will provide us with new jobs?
2835	When will those responsible at last understand that sparing resources is not something we do for fun; nor is it just a question of creating a system for its own sake or a new study group, rather it is a joint European challenge.
2836	That is why I welcome Mrs Palacio' s action plan with open arms.
2837	It is equally important to note that "prevention is better than cure" .
2838	But there is an art to that as well.
2839	Deploying the German multipurpose ship "Neuwerk" - it is right outside my front door in Cuxhaven - entailed the swift provision of European neighbourly help.
2840	We are particularly in the debt of those who undertook the difficult deployment of all their crew.
2841	Valuable experiences were gained, and also the knowledge that we cannot master such environmental disasters using state-of-the-art technology alone.
2842	We are therefore right to demand improved controls, sanctions and preventive measures.
2843	I have been fighting for a European environmental coastguard service for almost ten years, here in Parliament.
2844	The issue is as topical as it was before.
2845	Furthermore, I will not withhold my support but will endeavour, alongside my fellow MEPs, to bring about improvements and logical solutions within the framework of European and international cooperation.
2846	Mr President, firstly I would like to express my very sincere thanks, not only for the initiatives of the different groups, of Mrs Grossetête and the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, but also for the initiatives of Mr Wurtz and the Confederal Group of the United Left/Nordic Green Left, who proposed this debate, which has led to a positive and important discussion.
2847	Before the end of March, I propose to present a communication in which I will possibly present legislative texts, that is to say, amendments of specific directives so that discussions may begin in the Council and in Parliament.
2848	I would like to tell you that, in fact, it is not just an environmental problem - it is a very important environmental problem - but it is also a very important social problem. There are men and women who depend on fishing, gathering shellfish and the service or tourist industries in these coastal areas.
2849	They are environmentally sensitive areas, but they are also sensitive from the point of view of social development and territorial equilibrium. And therefore we must take the utmost care to prevent the recurrence of a similar situation.
2850	Mrs Roth-Behrendt said that nothing had ever been done.
2851	In fact, I believe that things have been done by the Commission, but there is still more to do.
2852	This was demonstrated by the Americans who, after the Exxon Valdez disaster, within one year, adopted enormously rigorous and tough legislation, which threatens, as I said earlier, to divert ships unacceptable to American ports towards Europe.
2853	In Europe, after the Amoco Cadiz, or the Urquiola on the Spanish coast, in 1976, or the Torrey Canyon, in the same year, or the many other cases there have been, we really began to legislate after 1994 and 1995, particularly in the last few years.
2854	During these years, the emphasis has mainly been on the safety of passenger transport.
2855	That is the reality.
2856	In my opinion, we now have to make a significant and urgent effort to confront new problems, also deriving from American legislation, which emphasise the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the maritime sector.
2857	I have referred to a series of issues which I will lay out in more detail, if you wish, in an appearance before a special committee on this matter, or when I present the actual initiatives in the coming months.
2858	My intention is - and I insist - for us to begin discussions after the end of March, also coinciding with the Council of Ministers, and, of course, before the end of the six-month period of the Portuguese Presidency, for us to have texts to discuss.
2859	Flags of convenience are one problem, but are not the only one.
2860	The Romanian flag is not a flag of convenience but, nevertheless, that country has an extremely high number of incidences at inspections; more than the countries with flags of convenience.
2861	Malta and Cyprus have asked to join the Community.
2862	We must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end.
2863	This will oblige us to reconsider the registers in the European Union, and to deal with the notorious problem, which will no doubt arise again, of the aim of a Community register.
2864	I believe that this will be difficult but, in any event, we should carry out a review of the registers of the European Union countries.
2865	As for the inspections, very much a key question, the first thing we have to consider is how the current legislation has worked, as Mr Hatzidakis has said.
2866	We already have legislation.
2867	According to the information which the Commission services have given me, this legislation is not adequately applied in many Member States due to a lack of personnel, means and inspectors.
2868	The problem is not that only 25% are inspected, but rather how we select, how we find, the ships which constitute the highest risk, through the age of the ships and the risk history of the flags.
2869	Unfortunately, the 25% often consists of flags which are expected to fulfil the requirements: in this way inspections are quicker and the work is carried out more easily.
2870	Therefore, more than making amendments, we will have to implement measures to control what is already being done, apart from some supplementary requirements with regard to reviews, especially in relation to the age of the different vessels.
2871	And that is why we have SOLAS (the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea) and MARPOL (the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships), two conventions of the International Maritime Organisation which will eventually have to be made mandatory in all Member States of the Union and whose application will have to be monitored.
2872	With regard to the question of Union inspectors, I believe that the principle of subsidiarity justifies the idea that these inspections be carried out by the Member States, which does not mean that the Commission does not have to ensure that the States carry out their duty adequately.
2873	Lastly, I would like to stress the issue of liability.
2874	Not only in terms of maximum sums insured, which I believe should be similar to those in the United States.
2875	We have set a figure of USD 180 million; in the United States they are talking about USD 1 billion as a maximum ceiling for covering claims payments.
2876	I believe we have to increase the current amount so as to move closer to levels in the United States, but that we also have to reconsider the sums insured on vessels and, therefore, the liability of shipowners, and also to hold liable those who charter ships, which is to say the owners of the cargo.
2877	Unless we require that the owners of the cargo be held liable, we will never, in my opinion, resolve these problems.
2878	I will end now. I will not expand further.
2879	We will have the opportunity to do so on other occasions.
2880	But, obviously, as some speakers have said - and I thank all of you for your totally positive and relevant interventions - we cannot allow a situation where, within one, two or three years, we have to say once again that we have not done what we should have done.
2881	As for me, I can say, after having debated it in the College of Commissioners, that the Commission is prepared to present the necessary legislative measures, amendments and directives to Parliament and the Council, in order to equip ourselves with the greatest possible level of safety.
2882	The political will of this Parliament is required - and I can see that I can count on this - as well as that of the Council of Ministers.
2883	Thank you very much, Commissioner.
2884	We have taken good note of your intentions.
2885	I have received 8 motions for resolution, in accordance with Rule 37(2), to close the present Commission statement.
2886	The debate is closed.
2887	The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
2888	Storms in Europe
2889	The next item is the Commission statement on the storms in Europe.
2890	Mr Barnier has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
2891	Commissioner, I would like to thank you for the ideas you have put forward, particularly on the very specific proposals concerning the people affected and who are expecting a lot from the European Union, in terms of the help that we can offer them.
2892	In the days immediately following this terrible storm I wrote to you myself with a request for you to ask the French authorities to redraw the boundaries of Objective 2 so that all areas devastated by the storms in France and elsewhere could benefit from Objective 2.
2893	I think that you must have done so, because you have not mentioned it.
2894	In fact, we all know that anyone who does not live within the perimeter of an Objective 2 region will find it all but impossible to obtain aid.
2895	We should therefore put this situation right immediately.
2896	You also know that this will not only be a short-term problem, but also a medium and long-term one.
2897	Let me explain.
2898	I was in the region of Lorraine at the time of this terrible storm which destroyed around 20% of deciduous forest.
2899	Indeed, for some 'forestry' districts, which have lost 20% of their trees, this represents a huge loss.
2900	We know, for example, that it takes between 150 and 200 years for a tree to reach maturity, so the loss these towns will suffer will not be spread over one, two or five years, but over many more.
2901	The towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years.
2902	I think that consequently it will be extremely difficult indeed to compensate these rural towns through subsidies for losses in their financial revenues.
2903	I think that this is something which we should continually bear in mind so that we do not lose sight of it in our various policies.
2904	It is true that the problem of the forestry sector is an extremely complex one.
2905	Indeed, you spoke of releasing funds for timber storage on the grounds that its price must not depreciate.
2906	On the other hand, districts which have not been affected by the storms will also suffer, as the National Forestry Office has decided to freeze cuts in forestation for four years.
2907	Those districts which have not suffered losses will therefore see their incomes decrease in any case.
2908	I am telling you all of this to illustrate how complex the problem is, and I thank the Commission once again for extending their analysis of this situation as far as it could.
2909	I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, although there has indeed been an economic disaster, the real ecological catastrophes are still to come.
2910	As you yourself said, Commissioner, these disasters or storms do not always have natural causes, and we think that these are the first signs of climate change.
2911	We should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact.
2912	Mr President, everyone who has travelled here by car, train or aeroplane, has been able to see the extent of the damage, particularly in France, caused by hurricanes of a completely unprecedented violence which struck Europe at the end of last month.
2913	What can the Members of the European Parliament do when faced with such a widespread disaster?
2914	Firstly, I would like to pay tribute to the mayors and local representatives who, on a daily basis, have had to reassure their constituents, organise volunteers and cooperate with the public services.
2915	They have earned the confidence of their fellow-citizens.
2916	Next, I would like to thank the emergency services and the armed forces of the Union' s Member States who, in a fine example of intergovernmental cooperation, came to support the efforts of their French colleagues.
2917	I would also like to consider the paradoxical situation we have with regard to emergency aid.
2918	If this disaster had taken place in Guatemala or Turkey, we could have immediately used the Community budget to help the victims, but in our own countries nothing of the kind is possible because there is no suitable budget line with which to do so.
2919	We must also ask the Commission not to prevent local authorities and individual States from coming to the assistance of businesses affected by the disaster by applying Community competition rules too strictly.
2920	I am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies, which have been particularly badly hit.
2921	As you said, Commissioner, we must ensure that there is compensation for the forced cessation in activity and that appeals can be made to FIFG for investments that have been totally wiped out.
2922	Beyond this, I think that implementing MAGPs in a mechanical way will no longer be appropriate in the coastal regions that have been affected.
2923	I therefore ask the Commission to stop doing so and, on the contrary, to help those who make their living from the sea to proceed to new investments, which they urgently need.
2924	Mr President, the storms which devastated France during the night between 26 and 27 December have caused, as has been said, 90 deaths and damage to a value of FF 75 billion, i.e. EUR 11 billion.
2925	Almost three weeks after the disaster, several thousand people were still without electricity and telephones, 500 000 hectares of forestry land, or 100 million cubic metres of forest, have been ruined, and our historical heritage has also been affected, as the sad example of the park at the Palace of Versailles demonstrates.
2926	It seems quite natural that given such a disaster, national and European solidarity should go to the help of the devastated regions and those people who have been worst affected.
2927	As the previous speakers have said, and as you said, Commissioner, in response to my fellow Member, Mr Martinez, with regard to another tragedy, the floods in November in the Southwest of France, you have certainly noted these disasters with concern, but all you are doing is pointing out that the budget line for emergency appropriations for natural disasters has been discontinued, which has resulted in this shocking paradox. This paradox, pointed out by the previous speaker, is that it is easier, a great deal easier, to offer help to victims of natural disasters outside the Union than within it.
2928	We know full well that what you are doing, Commissioner, and that is, limiting yourself to giving us the hypothetical and remote possibility of benefiting from the Structural Funds of the new Objective 2 or from the provisional Objectives 2 or 5b.
2929	These are the terms of the written answer you gave Mr Martinez on 11 January 2000.
2930	I can show you a copy if you wish.
2931	We would understand completely if you were not able to say anything else given the irresponsible attitude not only of the Commission, but also of this Parliament, and if you cannot do anything because there is no legal or financial framework for doing so.
2932	But for pity' s sake, and I am not saying this to you in an aggressive way, please do not present appropriations which have previously been earmarked under an unrelated regional policy as aid for victims of the storms.
2933	As a matter of urgency, therefore, we must restore, within the framework of a supplementary budget, the budget line which was allocated to us for natural disasters.
2934	We must use the Berlin Summit aid appropriations and we must change the forestry policy implemented in most countries in the Union. That, however, is another problem altogether.
2935	Mr President, Commissioner, Europe has undergone a tough ordeal at the start of this millennium.
2936	I would first like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families in mourning as a result of the appalling weather conditions that devastated Europe in December.
2937	These storms were an unprecedented ecological disaster for our forests.
2938	I hope you do not mind if I make particular mention of the forests in my region, Lorraine, which have suffered enormous destruction.
2939	I would like to congratulate the regional authorities, the volunteers and the public services on the fantastic way in which they rallied round but, unfortunately, their troubles are not yet over.
2940	It is Europe's duty to support them and thereby complement the efforts of the governments of Member States affected by the disaster.
2941	I welcome Mr Barnier' s statement and I also welcome the measures which the Commission has announced.
2942	I am certainly not forgetting the economic dimension of this matter, as the timber industry has been devastated and a whole population is suffering the tragic effects of this.
2943	The Community action programme for civil protection, established by a Council decision on 9 December, was launched on 1 January 2000.
2944	I ask Member States to grasp this opportunity. This programme must work at full capacity.
2945	Although it may have been effective in certain areas - and I do not doubt the sincerity of Commissioner Barnier' s words - unfortunately it is still in its infancy when it comes to forestry.
2946	Our priority, as we wait for Community-level funds to be freed up, is for material aid in terms of partnership exchanges between Member States.
2947	It is therefore a matter of urgency to improve forest roads, and to repair them as quickly as possible.
2948	Lending forestry equipment and making personnel qualified in forestry management available are also covered by this measure.
2949	Our next challenge will be to prevent the occurrence of phytosanitary problems which could result from having to abandon large amounts of wood in the forest, and from the pollution of ground water through having to store such large quantities of wood.
2950	Finally, it is essential that we slow down the logging of standing wood, in order to give priority to the purchase of windfalls.
2951	These timber sales should be supported by strong media coverage in Member States.
2952	This aid for gathering timber is, of course, only the first stage of an aid package, which will take the form of aid for reforestation and aid for the development of rural areas.
2953	I ask the Commission to incorporate this into a study of how the situation should be managed now that the emergency is over.
2954	This is a very sad opportunity for Europe to renew its forestry heritage in line with the role that this plays in wildlife and nature conservation and in our economies.
2955	It is therefore a time for solidarity and cooperation between Member States in the face of an ecological and economic calamity.
2956	If this solidarity is to have been worthwhile, it is up to Europe to propose priority actions for safeguarding the timber industry.
2957	Hurricane "Lothar" should prompt us not to abide solely by the principle of undertaking repairs once the damage is done - something which is discussed at a very superficial level here -, but to switch to the precautionary principle, under the terms of which potential perpetrators are brought to book too.
2958	Current programmes must be accelerated.
2959	For example, as they stand, the Commission' s programmes will preclude us from meeting our obligations under Kyoto.
2960	The trade in emissions rights is immoral to my mind and rather than solving the problem, it shelves it.
2961	The entire taxation system must be given an environmental perspective in the medium term.
2962	We must work more rapidly towards achieving the targets stipulated in the White Paper for renewable energy sources, as this would bring about a massive reduction in greenhouse gases.
2963	The new Commission has not put forward nearly enough on this subject, and what it has put forward is woefully inadequate!
2964	Commissioner, Mr President, Lothar was a quite ordinary name hitherto.
2965	However, it has now achieved notoriety.
2966	The hurricane of the same name swept across Europe claiming numerous victims, mainly in France and Germany, but also in Switzerland, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake.
2967	The wind triumphed over electricity pylons, roofs, traffic signs and, ultimately over the forest.
2968	We have heard that in a short space of time the storm left us with approximately 120 million cubic metres of solid timber, and this is only an estimate.
2969	I have listened to you very attentively Commissioner, and welcome with open arms the fact that you are intending to go and see for yourself the effects the catastrophe has had in France and in Germany.
2970	If Mrs Schreyer is to visit the Black Forest sometime in the next few days, then any one farmer might ask her how the Commission and Europe would be able to help him as an individual.
2971	What would you say to the forestry manager if his enterprise happened not to be in an Objective 2 region, or in a 5b region?
2972	What answer will the Commission give, when it is on the scene, when you tell the forestry worker that we support road construction and dam-building, and we want to rebuild our cultural heritage and create tourist attractions etc.?
2973	All this is well-intentioned advice.
2974	However, I come from an area in Northern Germany where the forestry industry predominates and I can tell you that we are already feeling the effects of the immense damage.
2975	The thinning-out we need is not being attended to; the forests are not being tended to the requisite degree.
2976	What we need the Commission to do as a matter of urgency is to approve national aid, so as to avoid the competition issue being raised again at a later date.
2977	Mr President, Commissioner, permit me, first of all, to make reference to two facts.
2978	Firstly, at the beginning of 1999, NATO, with the participation of most Member States of the European Union, flattened Kosovo with bombs in the name of freedom.
2979	We are now endeavouring, at huge cost, to get the country back on its feet again and help its people, and rightly so.
2980	Secondly, at the end of 1999 unbelievable storms raged bringing death and destruction to vast tracts of the EU.
2981	The Commission in Brussels responded to the victims' cries for help with a shrugging of shoulders.
2982	"We do not have the wherewithal for that," they said.
2983	This is wrong!
2984	And no one can comprehend this attitude.
2985	Certainly those who fear for their livelihood are at a complete loss.
2986	The citizens of the European Union expect solidarity, also from within this Community.
2987	I say they have a right to solidarity.
2988	Indeed the European Parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need.
2989	I urge the Commission not to keep having to be asked and to provide assistance for the victims of the storms.
2990	It knows the ins and outs of aid provision better than any local organisation or authority.
2991	I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to support me in bringing home to the Commission the fact that what most Brussels offices are lacking is not so much the wherewithal for providing aid as the good will.
2992	Permit me one further comment. Although it was less evident in the case of the consequences of the storm, the tanker disaster off the French coast has made it very clear that we need to give the Commission a helping hand on another matter.
2993	The European Union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency.
2994	We can no longer tolerate a situation where the general public has to foot the bill for damage that has often been caused by individuals involved in criminal machinations.
2995	We must make the perpetrators liable for all manner of damage done to our environment.
2996	Then, for example, people will think twice before transporting oil in a tanker that is about to fall apart.
2997	When, in 1994, over five years ago that is, I joined the Legal Affairs Committee in this Parliament, I became rapporteur for the environmental liability dossier.
2998	To this day I am still awaiting an initiative from the Commission, which will actually enable me to start work.
2999	It is a scandalous state of affairs that must be ended with all haste, and I hope that February does not see this dossier being postponed yet again!
3000	Mr President, Commissioner, the storms that took place at the turn of the millennium should galvanise us into thinking about certain problems.
3001	It has become clear that mankind continues to be unable to avoid natural disasters.
3002	There have always been natural disasters and there always will be.
3003	Of course, there is a need for solidarity here.
3004	There is certainly a need for European civil protection, and the EU budget must also provide for a budget line covering natural disasters.
3005	But, most importantly, it is only ever man that makes the mistakes as far as the nature-mankind relationship is concerned - despite the fact that the same mistakes have often been made down through the centuries - and never nature, for nature cannot make mistakes.
3006	The extent of the damage caused on this occasion was determined by the population density, the type of infrastructure, and, of course, the many monocultures, if we are talking forests.
3007	Of course, I am in favour of providing assistance where we can.
3008	But when it comes to aid, we ought to bear in mind that perhaps in future, more emphasis should be placed on laying electricity and telephone cabling underground.
3009	We must take account of smaller cycles and plant stable mixed woodland when undertaking reforestation, rather than monocultures.
3010	The most important subject for discussion in this context is the climate.
3011	To this day, we in Europe remain in the privileged position of having the Gulf Stream, and the Gulf Stream still does its stuff.
3012	America and south-east Asia are having a much worse time of it as far as climate and storms go.
3013	We are fortunate in having the Gulf Stream.
3014	But in common with others, we too are having to endure the greenhouse effect.
3015	This is partly the work of human hand, as difficult as it is to demonstrate climate change using calculations.
3016	We must take more account of the guidelines produced at the Kyoto environmental conference.
3017	We must reduce CO2 emissions, employ renewable energies, and generally make enquiries, in this connection, as to how the forests of Europe are faring.
3018	Mr President, I think we should firstly express our sorrow for the victims.
3019	This is an irreparable loss.
3020	Secondly, we welcome the solidarity between the French departments and citizens, and the solidarity of other countries with France, which is the country worst affected.
3021	As I have little time, Mr President, I would like to touch upon two elements of our resolution.
3022	I believe that the first one was implicitly recognised by the Commissioner in his speech when he wondered whether these catastrophes are natural or not.
3023	That is to say that experts are ever more convinced that climate change and human activities, in general terms, are linked to the increase seen in natural disasters in recent years.
3024	In fact, over the last decade, the temperature has risen more than in the rest of the century.
3025	Therefore Europe must be clearly committed to the Kyoto Protocol and make specific proposals.
3026	Secondly, I was rapporteur for civil protection in Europe and I completely agree with the Commissioner' s proposal to create a European civil protection body.
3027	Furthermore, we should utilise an extraordinary budget line, since this is an extraordinarily catastrophic situation.
3028	First of all, we would like to express sympathy with all the families and communities that lost members in this terrible tragedy.
3029	It is really the loss of life that makes this particular disaster an extraordinary one by European standards.
3030	It is regrettable that we do not have any instrument with which to give assistance in situations like this.
3031	I want to thank the Commissioner for his comprehensive statement on the subject and his suggestion that we might indeed organise ourselves at European level to give assistance to Member States and regions that have tragedies like this.
3032	That is important.
3033	The other thing we should remember is that we did have a budget line in the past. It was very small.
3034	It was not able to do very much but it was repeatedly abused by Members of this House proposing action when the disasters were not even major.
3035	Officials and ministers from Member States were coming to Brussels, whispering with the Commission and getting a few euros and making a political point by bringing aid back to their constituencies.
3036	So there was not much sympathy for this budget line when it was abolished.
3037	I think we should reinstate this budget line.
3038	When we had the earthquake in Greece, which was a big disaster, the Community had no instrument with which to offer its sympathy or solidarity to the Greeks.
3039	The same when the floods came in France and the same again now.
3040	These are major disasters, we should have an instrument, we do not have it.
3041	We should reinstate that instrument and we should make the rules tight so that only in situations where grave disasters occur will we call up this particular instrument.
3042	We can save it from year to year and ensure that when something major happens we have an instrument to deal with it.
3043	We did not have it so bad in Ireland this time although we have had many serious wind storms on the Atlantic.
3044	We had floods in Ireland also and I want to express my sympathy with the people in Ireland who suffered from these.
3045	Ladies and gentlemen, none of us must forget what has taken place.
3046	It is true that there was a joint decision by the Council and Parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines.
3047	It is also true that there is a lot of European money around. Commissioner Barnier has pointed out that oyster farming and agriculture would be eligible under Article 30 of the regulation concerning rural development, forestry would be eligible under Article 33, companies would be eligible under exemptions from the competition law stated in Article 87(2) of the Treaty and public facilities would be eligible under the Structural Funds.
3048	It is nevertheless the case that not a penny more than what was allocated before the storm will now be freed up to demonstrate practical, active solidarity.
3049	It is nothing more than the States playing at taking from Peter in order to give to Paul.
3050	This is inadequate, and I am personally delighted that Mr Barnier has stated an idea close to my heart and which, moreover, I expressed when I told the press in Bordeaux what I am hoping for, and that is the establishment of a reinforced policy of European civil security.
3051	If the European citizenship that we all want to see is to come into being, if the mandate that our President, Mrs Fontaine has staked on a closer relationship between the Union and Europe' s citizens is to be effective, our citizens must be able to feel that we are acting with some urgency.
3052	I therefore believe that a European civil protection force, real civil relief blue helmets, who would go to areas in difficulty within the Union, as we currently have no emergency procedure, but also outside the Union if needs be, in Venezuela or anywhere else, is something that we should hope to see.
3053	I would like to tell Commissioner Barnier that in me he has an active ally for this idea which strikes me as noble and truly European in spirit.
3054	Mr President, Commissioner, when we compare the frequency with which storms occur in other parts of the world with our own situation, we see that Europe gets off relatively lightly.
3055	Nevertheless, the storms that took place in the last week of December showed us what the consequences can be and that there are major problems in store for us.
3056	Anyone travelling to Strasbourg by car or by rail would have been able to see for themselves that storms raged in Alsace as well.
3057	I would therefore like to extend my sympathy to all those citizens in the regions where the storms raged so furiously, and at the same time, from my position here in this Chamber, point to how important it is to support these regions and people.
3058	Each and every one of us knows that any other region of Europe could meet with just such a fate tomorrow.
3059	What we need to do now is to deal with the fallen timber as swiftly as possible.
3060	For it is common knowledge that we could have an even greater disaster on our hands if the fallen timber were to be left in the forests too long.
3061	For instance, it should be pointed out that fallen timber provides the best breeding ground for the bark beetle' s larvae, and we are not yet in a position to assess the repercussions this will have.
3062	That is why it is absolutely essential to deal with the fallen timber before the warmer weather arrives.
3063	Decades will have gone by before we are able to determine the true extent of the damage sustained by the forestry industry.
3064	For we all know how long it takes a tree to grow.
3065	The calculations are in decades rather than years.
3066	In addition, I would like to point out that the forestry industry is certainly not just about timber production, for barrier woodland and woodland that acts as a shield against avalanches also constitute an important factor in certain regions.
3067	I am therefore very proud to say that the skilled Austrian forestry workers are also prepared.....
3068	(The President cut the speaker off)
3069	Mr President, I extend our deepest sympathy to all of those who were affected by the storms.
3070	Sometimes within the Community we do not actually have an awareness of what is happening in other countries.
3071	We had very little coverage in Ireland of the tanker that sank.
3072	I was asked to highlight the result of the storms in Ireland.
3073	We had high winds and unprecedented, prolonged rainfall which, adding to existing difficulties, resulted in thousands of acres being submerged, sometimes, in up to 15 feet of water.
3074	We experienced the human misery of flooded homes and farms, no sanitation, no drinking water and the environmental disasters of E.coli-infected water.
3075	I talked with farmers whose ewes were aborting their lambs due to drinking the infected water.
3076	Natural habitats were destroyed.
3077	So I ask that Ireland be remembered in this particular case.
3078	I thank the Commissioner and support him very much in his European protection force.
3079	Mr President, Commissioner, I second all those who expressed their solidarity with the storm victims.
3080	I would just like to point again to the impact on the forestry industry throughout Europe.
3081	For the storms will have major implications for the forestry industry in all areas of Europe, and I believe we need, in the long-term, to give thought to how problems of this kind are to be dealt with in future.
3082	We certainly do not want market organisation for forests, but maybe we should set up a system, perhaps in conjunction with the private insurance sector, which will make it possible to mitigate the implications for the victims in some way.
3083	Unfortunately, we can expect there to be repeat performances of this kind of major disaster in the future.
3084	As has already been mentioned here, there are indications - no proof, but clear indications - that the increase in storms world-wide has to do with the climate catastrophe.
3085	Of course, the scientists do not all see eye to eye on this yet, but the majority of them are fairly convinced that if we continue to emit greenhouse gases as we are doing, these storms will, of course, hit us much harder still at the dawn of this new century.
3086	I believe now is the right time for us to think back once again to a proposal put forward in this Chamber by a former fellow MEP of ours, Tom Spencer. He suggested that rather than giving storms the names of men or women, we should name them after the perpetrators of the greenhouse effect - he proposed the oil companies at the time.
3087	However, an exception should certainly be made in the case of Shell and BP, for they have changed policy and do not just base their sales on fossil fuels which are damaging to the climate, rather they also invest in forms of energy that have future viability.
3088	We must be aware of this connection; I do not support those who make sweeping statements to the effect that the greenhouse effect is to blame for this storm, but one thing we can be relatively certain of is that we have reason to fear further catastrophes if we do not soon alter our course!
3089	I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
3090	That concludes the debate.
3091	The vote will be taken at noon on Thursday.
3092	Food safety
3093	The next item is the communication on food safety and a statement by the Commission.
3094	Mr President, I am very pleased to take this first available opportunity of outlining to Parliament the main lines of the Commission's White Paper on food safety, adopted on Wednesday last, 12 January, in association with my colleague, Mr Liikanen.
3095	At my hearing last September, I promised speedy delivery of this White Paper.
3096	I am happy that we have been able to deliver so quickly.
3097	The White Paper represents three to four months of intensive work since the new Commission was appointed last September.
3098	It takes on board the extensive consultations of the past couple of years since the Commission's Green Paper on food law was published.
3099	Equally it reflects our experiences of recent food alerts in such areas as dioxin and sludge, as well as the BSE crisis.
3100	The White Paper also reflects the concerns of this Parliament which you have outlined to both President Prodi and myself on the numerous occasions we have debated food safety in this House since the Commission was appointed.
3101	I do not need to remind you that consumer confidence in Europe's food safety regime has been badly affected by the crises and alerts of recent years and months.
3102	The Commission is fully committed to restoring that confidence by putting in place the most up-to-date and effective food safety regime in the world.
3103	When I launched the White Paper last week I said that the shopping trolley is one of the most potent weapons on the face of the earth.
3104	The most discerning decisions are made by the consumers of Europe.
3105	If their confidence is damaged this is reflected in shopping decisions.
3106	This in turn has a dramatic effect on farmers, producers and industry generally.
3107	In an industry worth some EUR 600 billion annually, even a slight dip in confidence levels can have significant effects.
3108	Between the agro-food sector and the farming sector there are over 10 million employees.
3109	High levels of confidence are necessary to boost job numbers and competitiveness.
3110	This crisis of confidence has also had the unfortunate but inevitable effect of eroding the trust of consumers in the systems and institutions at national and European level that should monitor and assure the highest standards of food safety.
3111	In saying all of this, I would like to make it clear that Europe nevertheless has one of the best food industries in the world and also one of the safest food control systems.
3112	The challenge is to make the system the very best.
3113	The overall objective therefore of the White Paper on food safety is to put in place the necessary legislation and structures that will guarantee the highest possible level of health protection for consumers arising from the consumption of food.
3114	We are setting out a challenging and ambitious agenda for change.
3115	The Commission will need the full support of Parliament if we are to achieve our ambitions on schedule.
3116	We will also need the fullest support from the Council and other key stakeholders.
3117	The White Paper on food safety outlines a comprehensive range of actions needed to complement and modernise existing EU food legislation. All of these measures are designed to make it more coherent, understandable and flexible.
3118	We want to promote better enforcement of that legislation and to provide greater transparency to consumers.
3119	The detailed action plan on food safety in the White Paper sets a precise timetable for action over the next three years.
3120	Over 80 measures are envisaged.
3121	Our objective is to put in place a coherent and up-to-date body of food law by the end of 2002.
3122	We are also envisaging the establishment of a European food authority by 2002 as an essential complement to the new food safety regime.
3123	This idea will be the focus of much scrutiny and debate.
3124	It has already attracted much comment, including reactions from Members of Parliament.
3125	The chapter of the White Paper devoted to the establishment of a European food authority is clearly designed to elicit views and comments. We are seeking views by the end of April on what we envisage.
3126	I will return to this process of consultation in a few moments.
3127	The Commission believes that major structural change is required in our system of food safety to ensure the twin objectives of assuring the highest standard of food safety and restoring consumer confidence.
3128	Why should a European food authority be an essential part of that structure of change?
3129	The first key concern is independence.
3130	Key stakeholders, including consumers, are seeking a system that is independent and perceived to be independent of all vested interests.
3131	We must also ensure excellence and transparency.
3132	We have made a lot of progress over the past couple of years since the reformed system of scientific advice was adopted as a consequence of the BSE crisis.
3133	However, the Commission believes that we must go further.
3134	We must create a permanent and truly independent, excellent and transparent system of risk assessment.
3135	The key task of the authority will be risk assessment in the area of food safety.
3136	We envisage that the work of the existing five Scientific Committees devoted to food safety will be transferred to the authority.
3137	They may not be transferred in their present form or structure - this is an issue on which we will elicit views before making our definitive proposals on the authority's establishment.
3138	However, if we were merely to propose a simple moving of deckchairs, this would clearly not be enough.
3139	As the White Paper makes clear, the new authority must be a value-added structure.
3140	I am of the view that the existing system of scientific advice needs to be strengthened.
3141	Within the authority I envisage much stronger scientific and other support for the independent scientists.
3142	I am also envisaging that the authority will be much more proactive than our current regime - anticipate rather than react, identify issues before they become crises.
3143	This proactive approach should become the hallmark of the authority.
3144	To be proactive the White Paper identifies a number of new areas that would be embraced by the authority.
3145	These include a comprehensive information gathering and surveillance function, the coordination of scientific information in the EU, and building up strong networks with food safety agencies and bodies in Member States.
3146	As part of its remit we also envisage the authority operating an enhanced rapid alert system for food and feed concerns.
3147	The Commission has decided that it is neither appropriate nor feasible to devolve risk management power to the authority.
3148	We believe that decisions in the risk management area should properly remain the preserve of the Commission, Parliament and Council.
3149	I make no apology for this approach; I firmly believe that it is the correct one.
3150	Certainly there are those who would argue that we should give law-making powers to such an authority.
3151	I do not accept those views and reject them with some degree of passion.
3152	It was only last year that the Treaty was amended to give Parliament a much greater role in the legislative process.
3153	To give such a role to an authority at this stage would be, in my view, a retrograde step and represent a dilution of democratic accountability.
3154	I will be very interested to hear the views of Parliament itself in relation to this matter.
3155	There are also those who argue that the Commission could effectively ignore the advice of the new authority.
3156	I also reject this line of argument. How could a Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection reject or ignore well-founded independent scientific advice in relation to food safety?
3157	Would this be in the interests of Europe's citizens?
3158	In my view, most definitely not unless such rejection of the scientific arguments were soundly based, rationally argued and fully justified.
3159	It seems difficult to envisage such a situation evolving.
3160	I can assure you here today that the Commission, in exercising its risk management functions, will fully take account of the scientific advice of the authority.
3161	I have already said that the authority will be charged with developing networks with national food safety agencies and bodies in the Member States.
3162	This is a major task.
3163	We must develop greater certainty in the science that underpins food safety in the European Union.
3164	The authority must become the authoritative source of scientific advice and information on food safety issues.
3165	This situation will not come about by the very creation of the authority but will evolve over time as confidence is gained in the authority itself.
3166	I do not believe we can be prescriptive in the area of science and advice based on science.
3167	However, with the evolution of dynamic networks with national scientific bodies and agencies, the authority will become pre-eminent on the European stage.
3168	I am also anxious to hear the views of Parliament in this regard.
3169	As an integral part of a value-added structure, the White Paper proposes that the authority would have a major role in risk communication: to disseminate complex scientific information in a consumer-friendly way; to be the obvious and indispensable port of call for the most up-to-the-minute data on risk; to be highly visible; to tell the good news story about food; to be proactive.
3170	The White Paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls.
3171	This is a hugely important component of the system of checks and balances to ensure that Member States and operators are complying with Community legislation.
3172	I want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena.
3173	In this context we are also proposing to strengthen significantly the control function carried out by the food and veterinary office located in Dublin.
3174	This revised Community framework would have three core elements: operational criteria set up at Community level, Community control guidelines, and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control.
3175	As part of our proposals in this area - which I expect to bring forward at the end of this year - I will be examining whether additional powers in addition to infringement procedures need to be given to the Commission. These could include withholding Community financial support or recouping funding already committed to a Member State.
3176	These proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world, boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the Union.
3177	In addition to the proposals for a new European food authority and an enhanced control system at Community-level, the White Paper proposes an action plan with a wide range of measures to improve and bring coherence to the Community's legislation, covering all aspects of food products from farm to table.
3178	It sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation.
3179	The new legal framework will cover animal feed, animal health and welfare, hygiene, contaminants and residues, novel food, additives, flavourings, packaging and irradiation.
3180	It will include a proposal on general food law which will embody the principles of food safety such as responsibility of feed manufacturers, farmers and food operators, traceability of feed, food and ingredients, proper risk analysis through, for instance, risk assessment - that is, scientific advice and information analysis - risk management - that is, regulation and control - risk communication, and application of the precautionary principle if and when appropriate.
3181	As regards the precautionary principle, I might add that the Commission is currently finalising a communication which I expect to be adopted very soon.
3182	I look forward to having a useful exchange of views this afternoon with the Members of Parliament who would clearly have preferred to do this last week if there had been an appropriate parliamentary forum available.
3183	However, having regard to my contacts with the presidents of the relevant committees, I recognise that this was not feasible.
3184	But I know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the White Paper's proposals on the authority.
3185	We now have a number of months to have the necessary debate on the Commission's ideas on the White Paper on the establishment of a European food authority.
3186	Parliament will have a key part to play in this debate. Parliament played a crucial role in Europe's response to the BSE crisis.
3187	It has especially active since then in bringing citizens' concerns about food safety issues to the fore.
3188	I expect that Parliament's contribution to the debate on the authority can be as incisive and constructive.
3189	While we have a number of months to the end of April to debate the issue and garner our views, I recognise fully that this is also a very tight timeframe.
3190	I would therefore ask Parliament to make appropriate arrangements to ensure that its views can be formulated as quickly as possible.
3191	It is essential that the Commission should have the benefit of Parliament's contribution to the shaping of what would be a key component of raising consumer health protection to a new plane and thereby restoring consumer confidence in the European Union's food safety regime.
3192	The European food authority will be a key ingredient in the EU's food safety regime in the years ahead.
3193	It is essential that we get the mix right.
3194	Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his statement.
3195	I would like to welcome the division of labour that you have made and that food management will remain the responsibility of the European institutions, including the Commission and Parliament.
3196	That is very much the right approach.
3197	But there is one word that I have not heard you mention here tonight. I hope that we can thrash this out.
3198	We need a body of food law, as you have said, and we need to agree this together.
3199	It is very important that we include liability in that process.
3200	That is the one word I am talking about.
3201	The problem so far is that taxpayers paid when something went wrong.
3202	That cannot continue.
3203	When we have a crisis we have to clearly identify in advance that if there is a problem, those responsible are liable.
3204	Mr President, it is a very worthwhile White Paper and you will not hear a word from me on the food safety authority.
3205	My questions relate to the positive list for animal feed.
3206	You are unclear about this in your White Paper.
3207	What is your schedule, how long will it take you to produce a positive list?
3208	When will the same requirements be applied to animal feed and the production thereof as apply to the production of food and the monitoring thereof?
3209	The final part of my question is as follows: when will BSE testing be binding in all Member States?
3210	That is another point, i.e. the question of obligation, which you were somewhat unclear on in your White Paper.
3211	Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement.
3212	I think the lines that you have set up regarding the Food Safety Authority are a recognition of reality.
3213	The Member States would not accept a regulatory agency, so there is not very much point in your proposing one.
3214	Some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs.
3215	However, as chairman of a committee which looks as though it will be concerning itself almost entirely with food over the next three years, I have to ask: if Europe has the safest food control system, as you have said, why do we need 24 new directives and regulations and 20 new amending directives?
3216	Secondly, will this not compound the problem of over-regulation from Brussels and under-implementation in the Member States? We look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this.
3217	Regarding enlargement: what plans does the Commission have to involve the applicant states in debates on these new laws, given that the Commission clearly expects the laws envisaged in the White Paper to form part of the acquis communautaire by 2003?
3218	President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ahern, Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mrs Jackson for their words of support in relation to the White Paper.
3219	I find that encouraging and I look forward to further discussions with them and other Members of Parliament in relation to the issues that they raised.
3220	Mrs Ahern raised the issue of liability.
3221	That of course is not specifically addressed in the White Paper except for the reference to the fact that we will be putting in place provisions - and there are already some - relating to the issue of traceability.
3222	Once that is done, issues such as liability can be addressed.
3223	I have not given full and detailed consideration to issues relating to and surrounding questions of liability despite my background, but it seems to me that there may very well be subsidiarity issues involved.
3224	But I have taken on board your suggestion and I will give it further consideration.
3225	Mrs Roth-Behrendt asked me about establishing a positive list.
3226	That is one of the issues that we address in the annex to the legislation, and the intention is to establish a positive list for feed material.
3227	At the moment the list is, as I say, a negative list and it is added to as required.
3228	The establishment of the positive list is one of the issues set out in the annex with a date attached to it, 2002 in fact.
3229	The rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation.
3230	Rapid alert is there for food but not for feed.
3231	This is unfortunate and it is wrong, and we believe that it is important to identify it and to establish legislation to close that gap and that will be done.
3232	The work in relation to BSE in Member States and the establishment of random testing to identify levels of infectivity in Member States is ongoing, I know that Mrs Roth-Behrendt has asked me this question before and I said I thought it was coming along quickly but I understand it is in inter-service consultation in the Commission and work is currently under way.
3233	I hope that the next time you ask me the question, I will be in a position to give you more detailed information.
3234	Mrs Jackson has focused on the fact that there are 24 new and 20 amending pieces of legislation and asks whether this compounds over-regulation.
3235	I should say that the pieces of legislation that we have identified are intended to close gaps in existing legislation.
3236	It is not so much a matter of the establishment of new regimes or further regulation, although that is part of it, but of identifying where there are gaps and loopholes in the chain from farm to table and closing them.
3237	There is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind.
3238	Standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that I have drawn to the attention of Mr Verheugen.
3239	Commissioner, the ignorance of certain Member States has landed us in a major food crisis here in Europe, and I am afraid that once more I have cause to be angry at the fact that again no Members of the Council are in attendance, and that on the day that you present your interesting report.
3240	What I would very much like you to tell me is how you intend to guarantee that a new authority of this kind, whatever name it goes by, will be given influence over the Council, who in this authority will have the say in matters, and who will issue orders.
3241	Of course, we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content, but I would insist on Parliament retaining the rights accorded it under Maastricht and Amsterdam, and even extending them.
3242	I very much fear that we are to have yet another authority that flies through Europe anonymously like a satellite; an authority of this kind would be anathema to me and I hope it does not come to that.
3243	I also welcome the White Paper.
3244	But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France's refusal to lift the ban?
3245	You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting.
3246	Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance, similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment?
3247	Mr President, you said during last week' s information session that it was your view that any future EU food agency should not be located on the periphery, but you did not mention what that periphery was.
3248	For example, the work of the EU unit located in Dublin has shown that physical distance is no barrier these days to communication and having an effective influence on matters.
3249	It has been suggested that the most important tasks of a future food authority will be to gather, publish and coordinate data, make recommendations for improved food safety, and - as you said - collect scientific data and popularise that information for consumers.
3250	All this will be managed with the help of modern technology in any area of the European Union.
3251	I would ask you on what you base your ideas for a location?
3252	In relation to the makeup of the authority: first of all it will employ in-house scientists who will liaise with and consult with scientists who are experts in the particular field that is being considered at any particular time.
3253	In addition to that, the food safety authority will have a board.
3254	You will notice in the White Paper that we have not been specific about the makeup of that board.
3255	This is an issue which I expect will be discussed between Parliament and the Commission over the next few weeks and months.
3256	I envisage that the board's membership will be made up from stakeholders or representatives of stakeholders.
3257	Its function will have to be set out in detail in the proposal I will bring to the Commission in September.
3258	We have not done that yet but it will be done in September.
3259	I do not expect that the board will have any function in directing the scientists how to do their work.
3260	That would erode the independence of the scientific advice.
3261	But it would have an overall remit, particularly, for instance, in requesting the authority to investigate particular areas requiring research.
3262	Mr Florenz asks whether Parliament will have a say in that.
3263	That is an issue for consideration and discussion.
3264	There may be a number of views on that.
3265	Some may take the view that it would be inappropriate for Parliament or Members of Parliament - or indeed Parliament nominees - to be members of the board.
3266	Others may take the view that it would be a valuable exercise if Parliament, through nominees or even MEPs themselves, were able to have an opportunity to discuss what issues should be investigated.
3267	It is an issue for consideration but it has not been ruled out.
3268	Mr Florenz also raised the question of anonymity.
3269	I am happy that he raised it because it is particularly important for this authority to have a high profile.
3270	It must be visible. It must be known.
3271	Consumers in the European Union must know of the existence of the food authority.
3272	The CEO of the authority would be somebody who typically would be known, who might appear regularly on television talking about issues relating to food, particularly in relation to the good news stories surrounding food in relation to nutrition, diet and such issues, so that if another food crisis comes along consumers will be aware of the existence of the authority.
3273	They will be aware that they have heard from the authority before under other circumstances and hopefully will have some bedrock of confidence already built up in the pronouncements from the authority.
3274	It is fundamentally essential therefore that the authority is not anonymous.
3275	It must be visible.
3276	I will do everything I can to promote that high profile role for the authority.
3277	Mrs Lynne asks whether the authority will have sufficient teeth.
3278	I suspect that the question is focused on the issue of where the competence of the authority begins and ends and where the competence and authority of food safety agencies in Member States begin and end.
3279	There would have to be an interaction at scientific level.
3280	Quite clearly it is undesirable to have situations develop whereby scientists working for, or advising, the food safety authority at Community level may be in disagreement with some scientific opinion at Member State level.
3281	That is an undesirable situation, we do not want that situation in the future.
3282	There are a number of things that undermine consumer confidence - lack of information is one.
3283	But information which includes a fundamental disagreement between scientists on core issues relating to food safety is also an issue of serious concern.
3284	We must attempt to avoid that and establish the structures so as to ensure that there is a proper dissemination of information between scientists, that there is full consultation and discussion and that the authority at Community level has the opportunity and is mandated to seek the advice and opinion of independent scientists in all Member States and indeed maybe even beyond, where experts are to be found elsewhere.
3285	Over time, as I said a moment ago, not only will the profile of the authority be raised but its expertise, its moral authority will be increased and enhanced over a period of time so that its views are accepted and not challenged.
3286	This situation can be achieved over a period of time.
3287	You cannot legislate for consumer confidence.
3288	It is something that is earned over a period of time.
3289	However, the Commission will have the possibility of seeing that the opinions of the Authority on scientific matters are enforced by way of passing legislation which is the function of the Commission, Parliament and Council.
3290	I realise that this is a somewhat time-consuming exercise but, nonetheless, the establishment of legislation arising out of the opinions of the Authority is - I believe - the way forward.
3291	Any failure to comply with legislation is a matter that can be dealt with in the courts in the normal way.
3292	One of the issues that we may have to address over time is the question of the speed of response in such circumstance.
3293	I hope to see if something can be put in place to get us a faster response from the court process.
3294	In relation to grants and subsidies: yes, consideration has been given to that issue.
3295	It will require the advice of legal services and that will be sought, particularly bearing in mind that it may provide a speedy response to a failure to comply with Community law pending a court ruling.
3296	In relation to Mrs Lynne's question on interim payments: that is a matter that might very well be addressed by Parliament as it relates to budget issues.
3297	Mrs Myller then asked me about the location of the Authority.
3298	No decision has been taken in relation to that other than to say that it is more likely that the Authority will be located centrally rather than on the periphery.
3299	I recognise that the FEO is located in Dublin and, although I come from that part of the world myself, I have to accept that it is not the centre of Europe!
3300	But the FVO is in quite a different situation from the Food Safety Authority.
3301	The FVO is made up of independent scientists and vets and so on who travel from some location where there is an airport - quite clearly we have an airport in Dublin.
3302	The Food Safety Authority's situation is quite different.
3303	It has to be close to the Commission because of the need for interaction between the scientists involved in the Food Safety Authority and those of us who are involved in the initiation of legislation.
3304	An important part of the communication between the two institutions will obviously be to ensure that those of us who are involved in the drafting of legislation understand clearly and perfectly what it is the scientists mean, what problems they have identified, what legislation is necessary to deal with the issues they raise.
3305	Equally, the scientists will wish to have some input into the legal process or the policy-making process or the law-drafting process, to ensure that the legislation meets the ills that they have identified.
3306	It seems to me desirable for an authority of this type to be centrally located.
3307	Scientists will be employed in-house but it will also be necessary to liaise with scientists on a consultative basis and, in those circumstances, as scientists will have to travel, it is probably better that they move to a central location, once again where the parliamentary structures and the Commission and Council are based.
3308	That is my judgement at the moment.
3309	It may be a matter for discussion here and elsewhere and I will listen to any suggestions that are made but my preliminary conclusion is that this Authority should be located centrally rather than on the periphery.
3310	Colleagues, I am in a very difficult position because I cannot change the agenda.
3311	I would suggest to you to take this matter up with your political groups and raise it in the Conference of Presidents.
3312	If you feel that these sessions after a Commission statement are important, I would suggest that we require more time than the half-hour that is allocated to them.
3313	On this occasion we have had six minutes of questions from the floor of the House and we have had 29 minutes of response by the Commissioner, and his statement.
3314	As you can see, half-an-hour is not really anything like enough time for such a session.
3315	I hope you might discuss this in your political groups so that we can have a better structured session with the Commission on such future occasions.
3316	That concludes the debate.
3317	Question Time (Commission)
3318	The next item is Question Time (B5-0003/2000).
3319	We will examine questions to the Commission.
3320	We will dedicate approximately one hour and fifteen minutes to Question Time.
3321	We will cut back our time a little because the interpreters are working today in continuous session.
3322	Mr Purvis has the floor for a procedural motion.
3323	I object to the fact that we are cutting back the time for Question Time; it is one of the few occasions when backbenchers have a chance to get their time on the floor and I do ask you to extend it to one and a half hours as is on the agenda.
3324	That is the agenda and I think that we should stick to the agenda.
3325	The fact is that the agenda said that we would begin at 5.30 p.m., and you can see the clock.
3326	I hope that we do not go on into the evening session in any event.
3327	First Part
3328	Question No 28 by (H-0781/99):
3329	Subject: Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey's persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu, while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes.
3330	Turkey's nuclear plans ? which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region ? prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
3331	What steps will the Commission take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget?
3332	Mr Verheugen has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
3333	The Commission is following with interest the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, Turkey and recognises the importance of ensuring that the construction of the new plant follows the highest internationally accepted nuclear safety standards.
3334	According to our information, the decision on the selection of a bidder has not been taken yet.
3335	The Commission acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the convention on nuclear safety and recognises that the responsibility for granting licences and regulating the siting, construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Turkey rests entirely with the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority.
3336	The Commission does not have a mandate to impose any limits on decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production, including the nuclear option.
3337	As Commissioner Wallström indicated during the hearings in the European Parliament in September 1999, the Commission will bring up the issue of nuclear safety and radiation protection in any relevant meeting with the Turkish Government in the future and I am happy to inform you that I will have a meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister in a couple of days and will certainly raise the issue.
3338	In particular, the Commission is aware of the public concerns about the recorded seismic activity in the area of the Ecemis fault line located in the vicinity of the proposed plant site.
3339	According to information received from the International Atomic Agency, the design of the plant takes into account the possibility of earthquakes stronger than any ever recorded in the area and particularly more than ten times stronger than the one registered in June 1998 in Adana.
3340	Large design margins are being provided in order to ensure safe operation of the plant according to the environmental conditions of the site.
3341	The Commission is also aware of concern about the possible intention of using the plant to produce weapons-grade material.
3342	It acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and has subsequently concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
3343	Thank you for your reply.
3344	I should like to make the following points: Turkey is now a candidate country.
3345	This plan is designed to increase its energy potential by 2%.
3346	At the same time, it also wishes to acquire Cadou type reactors from Canada, which we now know have already been used for nuclear weapons in Pakistan and India.
3347	In this sense, there is therefore a serious risk that some idiot will decide that the new geopolitical balance of power in the Caucasus calls for a nearby country with weapons grade nuclear technology.
3348	So much for the political aspect.
3349	Now to the technical aspect.
3350	The safety factor in this type of project, and I am speaking as an engineer, has nothing to do with increasing safety levels in relation to the risk of collapse by a factor of ten or twenty.
3351	In cases such as this, where there is uncertainty, simulators are used.
3352	However, we cannot used simulators in cases relating to nuclear energy.
3353	In this sense, all high seismic risk areas must be excluded a priori for nuclear installations such as this.
3354	Therefore, and given that the relationship between the European Union and the Commission and Turkey has now changed, it would be a good idea if Turkey discussed certain matters relating both to the safety of the area in general and the peaceful development of Turkey within the European Union.
3355	A couple of weeks ago we had a debate in Parliament on the nuclear safety issue with special regard to the candidate countries.
3356	I have explained the position of the Commission.
3357	You have to accept the fact that there is no acquis communautaire on nuclear safety.
3358	So what we did was use political means to convince some candidate countries that we have to have decommissioning plans for some reactors that are considered not to be upgradable.
3359	In the case of Turkey it is different.
3360	The plant is not yet there.
3361	I have already said that Turkey is part of the NPT and of the Convention on Nuclear Safety.
3362	If we see in the development of that nuclear power plant that there are concerns about safety we will discuss it with Turkey.
3363	If the conclusion is that Turkey is planning to build a nuclear power plant that does not meet normal European safety standards is concerned then we would do the same as we did with Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
3364	Mr President, the Commissioner said that Turkey has signed the non-proliferation treaty, it has signed the nuclear safety treaties: why should there be any doubt at all but that Turkey's nuclear plant should not be just as safe as any in the Community, and would the Commissioner be prepared to take a rather more robust position with Mr Souladakis on this matter?
3365	I think it is the right of a Member of Parliament to raise his own concerns and fears.
3366	I do not have these concerns.
3367	I believe that Turkey completely recognises the standards and the criteria of the convention on nuclear safety and the non-proliferation treaty, but there is no doubt that there are concerns in the public in Europe and I think it is quite right to discuss them here in Parliament.
3368	Question No 29 by (H-0786/99):
3369	Subject: Depleted uranium weapons Has the Commission conducted any studies of the potential effects upon EU states of transboundary pollution arising from the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Kosovan conflict?
3370	If not, why not?
3371	Mrs Wallström has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
3372	Thank you, Mr Bowe, for your question.
3373	The European Commission has monitored the environmental effects of the conflict from the beginning of the NATO action.
3374	As early as last June the Commission financed a first study.
3375	It was carried out by the regional environment centre for central and eastern Europe and concluded that there had been no large-scale ecological catastrophe.
3376	None of the subsequent evidence or analysis has overturned that original assessment.
3377	The Commission has also been closely associated with the production of the recent report published by the United Nations environment programme - Balkan Task Force.
3378	This is the most detailed and comprehensive report to date on the environmental effects of the Kosovo conflict and I recommend it to those who have not yet studied it.
3379	The use of depleted uranium weapons was one of the many issues considered and this report is now widely available also on the Net.
3380	The Balkan Task Force was hampered by the fact that little or no information was available on the actual use of these weapons during the conflict.
3381	No indications of contamination were found in Kosovo during the BTF fact-finding mission.
3382	However, this does not exclude the possibility that areas in Kosovo are contaminated by depleted uranium.
3383	From a desk assessment coupled with a fact-finding mission the report concludes that the risks, if any, are limited to an area around the target.
3384	Future actions will take place within the stability pact for south-eastern Europe.
3385	A special regional environmental reconstruction plan is also being developed. It will form the framework for emergency assistance for combating war damage if such action should be needed.
3386	First of all, Mr President, can I thank the Commissioner for that very useful response.
3387	Clearly the Commission has given some consideration to this problem and I am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue.
3388	But I would like to point out that the concern with depleted uranium weapons is about the way in which they are used.
3389	This uranium becomes air-borne, is inhaled and could now be effectively carried by members of the population in Kosovo with rather more long-term effects than it has been possible to establish so far.
3390	This seems to be the pattern of events that has emerged after the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Gulf war.
3391	I would therefore ask the Commission if it would wish to consider continuation of monitoring and for what length of time they might consider monitoring in future to see the long-term effects, not just of depleted uranium weapons but of some of the other effects on the environment that we do know have occurred at least in a localised way within Kosovo?
3392	How long will you continue to monitor the effects of these weapons?
3393	Thank you, Mr Bowe, for that question.
3394	We have to state again that there is still no confirmation that depleted uranium was used in the conflict and no depleted uranium has been detected in the clean-up of Kosovo.
3395	But those symptoms and those problems that you mentioned could be there and that could be the effect of the use of depleted uranium.
3396	That is also mentioned in the report.
3397	No transboundary effects have been detected and most of the weapons will have been used on the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
3398	The problem is that the current political isolation of the country means that access to this area is restricted.
3399	A big responsibility rests with the United Nations because they are addressed with this report, so they have to take responsibility.
3400	But through this regional and environmental reconstruction plan we can continue the monitoring and the assistance we can give and that is, for the time being, the kind of frame we can use for the work of the European Union.
3401	It is important to follow up and it gives the Member States, as well as the United Nations and the Commission, something to think about when it is a matter concerning military secrets and their effects on the environment.
3402	It also has a long-term effect on thinking when it comes to the use of these sorts of weapons.
3403	Mr President, Commissioner, in a few months' time, hundreds of thousands of holidaymakers will again head for the Adriatic Coast to spend their summer holiday.
3404	We know from media reports that bombs and weapons were dumped just off the coast.
3405	Are you able to confirm that holidaymakers will be able to swim safely in the Adriatic this summer, and are there any measures in the pipeline for ascertaining what the dangers might be in this respect?
3406	I wish I could give guarantees for many things but unfortunately I am not able to.
3407	We make our judgements from reports like this and the missions we send to check on things like this.
3408	That is what we rely on when we advise people on what to do.
3409	What we have seen is that war affects the environment in the long term and is dangerous.
3410	In the environmental field we have just passed a directive on marine pollution.
3411	That also includes bullets and weapons and so on and it is an early warning system.
3412	Unfortunately we are not able to give guarantees and we can only continue to monitor and try to do the clean-up exercise.
3413	I wanted to ask the Commissioner whether it is true that soldiers of the NATO armed forces now stationed in that region undergo special controls against nuclear radiation and that the same measures are not applied to civilians living in the area?
3414	I cannot answer that question.
3415	When it comes to medical checks and so on, I do not have all the information needed to give a proper answer.
3416	What we know from the environmental side is what I have already mentioned, that there is now an environmental reconstruction plan, but when it comes to medical check-ups I do not have the information about that.
3417	Of course I can go back and see whether we can find the necessary information.
3418	Question No 30 by (H-0793/99):
3419	Subject: Appointment of a European Union envoy for Tibet In 1998 the Tibetan Government in exile received over 4000 Tibetans who escaped over the Himalayan mountains seeking freedom and refuge at risk of life and limb.
3420	Many of the refugees had been severely frost-bitten and many had died along the way.
3421	The Tibet Intergroup is very concerned about the worsening situation in Tibet and it is clear that the current policy of the European Union has proved inadequate to address the grave human rights abuses faced by Tibetans daily in Tibet.
3422	The Tibet Intergroup, therefore, gravely concerned about the continuing human rights abuses in Tibet and supporting the Dalai Lama?s proposal for dialogue with the Chinese Government to resolve the situation in Tibet, calls on the Commission to appoint a Special Envoy for Tibet to address the concerns of the European Union and to help bring the Tibetan and Chinese authorities together for dialogue.
3423	When will the Commission appoint a Special Envoy for Tibet?
3424	Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
3425	The concerns expressed by the European Parliament about Tibet are widely shared.
3426	I have long believed in the need to set out our views on human rights issues, including Tibet, firmly and candidly to the Chinese authorities.
3427	The European Union did that at the European Union­China Summit in Peking last month where we pressed the Chinese on a number of human rights issues, including Tibet.
3428	We again urged the Chinese to begin a dialogue with the Dalai Lama.
3429	I urge the Chinese again to do so.
3430	We will continue to raise Tibet with the Chinese authorities.
3431	We are also doing a number of other things: in the European Union-China human rights dialogue, we have focused on a number of practical steps, including sending experts on assignment to Tibet, planning development assistance programmes and activities focusing on health, education and training for Tibetans.
3432	The appointment of an EU special envoy for Tibet would be primarily a matter for the Council to decide and Parliament might care to take the issue up directly with them.
3433	But for my part, I am not sure that it would add much practical value to our efforts.
3434	It would be unlikely to have much impact on the Chinese authorities and we already have effective channels of communication with the Tibetan community in exile.
3435	I am also keen to guard against an exponential growth in the number of special envoys, however worthy the cause.
3436	Mr President, Mr Patten, of course, you are very well-qualified to comment on account of the time you spent in China, and you are well aware of how hard the Tibetans are trying to initiate a debate, something which has always been blocked hitherto.
3437	However, if your response was to be that we should turn to "Mr CFSP" , that is, to Mr Solana, then I fear that this would constitute a one-sided approach to an external policy matter.
3438	Your approach, which I am very much in favour of, since it is a coherent one, takes its inspiration from the issue of human rights; I wholeheartedly agree that we must embrace the cause of human rights.
3439	Imprisonment, torture, the mutilation of young women and so on and so forth, are definitely issues that we could discuss ad infinitum.
3440	If we cut down here and say that the Council now shares responsibility for this, then I fear that these human rights issues will not be given the attention they deserve.
3441	The possibility of stressing the importance of business and trade in the first place, but also making very sure that we include human rights in the equation, would be a step we should take in tandem with the European Commission, rather than saying that it is a matter for the Council.
3442	Let me make clear to the honourable Member what the position is.
3443	I stated nothing but the truth when I said that the appointment of special envoys was a matter for the Council.
3444	As it happens, we deal with the budgetary consequences, the Council makes the appointment.
3445	Some may think that the budgetary point should be looked at in due course.
3446	Putting that on one side, because that is the situation, it does not mean that we do not have a view and a competence in human rights issues.
3447	I am very much hoping in the next few months that the Commission will be able to produce a communication on human rights pointing out, among other things, that there is no disjunction whatsoever between a regard for human rights in China or other places in the world and the trading and commercial interests and other interests of the European Union.
3448	I have long believed that we should all recognise that countries where it is best to do business are countries that treat their own citizens most decently - everywhere in the world.
3449	I repeat that we have made our position known to the Chinese on Tibet.
3450	During the few months that I have been a Commissioner that has happened twice, first of all in New York at our meeting with Minister Tang and most recently at the meeting in Peking and we will continue to make that concern manifest.
3451	If I can make a literary commendation to the honourable Member, who I recognise is interested in these subjects, I recommend to him a book published just before Christmas written by Isabel Hilton, the distinguished journalist, on the problems of Tibet.
3452	Mr President, I would like to start my additional question with the Tibetan greeting, which betokens peace and happiness.
3453	We are not just talking about human rights and the environment where Tibet is concerned, rather it is about a unique cultural heritage that is also able to communicate important values such as peace, serenity, compassion - as the Dalai Lama would say - to us Europeans.
3454	The question before us now is what can the Commission do to provide more practical support for his Holiness, the Dalai Lama' s, proposal for a peaceful solution to the Tibet affair?
3455	I would point out that doing nothing will be the death of Tibetan culture and will mean the end of the Tibetan people.
3456	I have much sympathy with what the honourable Member has said about cultural heritage and about the Buddhist tradition.
3457	Like the honourable Member I have read the autobiography of the Dalai Lama.
3458	It is an extremely moving account, not just of his responsibilities in and towards Tibet but also of his spiritual views as well.
3459	The Commission, like others, has urged dialogue.
3460	The Dalai Lama has made it clear that peaceful dialogue is what he wishes.
3461	I wish that the Chinese authorities had responded consistently and positively to that overture from the Dalai Lama.
3462	At or around the time of President Clinton's visit to China, the President of the People's Republic of China gave the impression that dialogue was on the agenda.
3463	It would be very beneficial, not just for Tibet and for all those who believe in peace and stability in Asia, but it would also be greatly to the credit of the Government of the People's Republic of China if they were to respond to those attempts to begin a dialogue.
3464	Question No 31 by (H-0795/99):
3465	Subject: Commission's rejection of legislation on proper administration in the EU According to newspaper reports, the Commission has rejected the proposal by EU Ombudsman Jacob Söderman for a citizens? right to proper administration in the EU.
3466	Although the Commission has itself approved the idea of legislation on proper administration, it has not now accepted a detailed proposal that has been made, but has decided to issue a whole set of additional guidelines on improving service.
3467	Are these reports accurate?
3468	What is the reason for the Commission?s acting in this way, and how can it explain the resultant discrepancy between its words and its actions on the reform of EU administration?
3469	Does the Commission consider that what has happened is compatible with the five-point programme agreed between Parliament and the Commission in September, and is it prepared to submit a detailed proposal for legislation on proper administration in a form which allows Parliament to express an opinion on it?
3470	Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
3471	The newspaper reports that the honourable Member made reference to seem to me to be misleading and inaccurate.
3472	In November 1999 the Commission approved at first reading a code of good administrative behaviour to be incorporated into its Rules of Procedure.
3473	At the moment the Commission is consulting its staff representatives on the document, a process which will be finalised in the forthcoming weeks.
3474	The Commission will then adopt the code at second reading.
3475	It should be noted that the new Commission gave an immediate follow-up to the European Ombudsman decision of 28 July 1999 in his own-initiative inquiry related to the code.
3476	The Commission would like to stress in particular that, in the drafting of the code, it has taken on board all the draft recommendations of the European Ombudsman.
3477	The code will be a document exclusively dealing with the relations of the Commission's administration with the public.
3478	It will be adopted through a legally-binding Commission decision to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
3479	The document has been drawn up taking full account of the provisions contained in the draft prepared by the European Ombudsman's office.
3480	According to the related provisions in the Treaties the responsible legislator for establishing its Rules of Procedure is the Commission itself.
3481	However, it goes without saying that the Commission adheres to the principle of regular political dialogue with the European Parliament on all aspects of administrative reform.
3482	Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner.
3483	However, I would still like to ask when this code will finally come into force, bearing in mind that it has been on the agenda since 1997.
3484	The newspaper reports were misleading.
3485	I do not think there is any difference between us and the Ombudsman.
3486	There is a question about the legislative base on which we have taken the best advice and I think we are soundly placed on that.
3487	I want to repeat that honourable Members, like the honourable Member who asked the question, who take a particular interest in this issue, will want to have a dialogue about it.
3488	It is extremely important and I recognise the concern of the honourable Member.
3489	I want to thank the Commission for what I perceive as a very positive answer.
3490	For safety' s sake, I should like to have confirmation that it really is the case that, where the Commission and good administration are concerned, there is no part of Jacob Söderman' s proposal which the Commission thinks is unacceptable.
3491	Is it true that the contents of all parts of the proposal will be approved?
3492	Let me read what it says in my brief - and as it is in my brief it must be true!
3493	"I would like to stress again that the Commission has accepted all the Ombudsman's recommendations contained in his draft recommendations of July 1999".
3494	Both documents, that is the Commission's document and the Ombudsman's draft, cover largely the same ground.
3495	The only substantial question that has arisen is the legislative basis.
3496	I can go into that in detail if the honourable Member would like but there is no doubt that we are on all fours with the Ombudsman on this important issue.
3497	We will be happy to incorporate Mr Patten' s notes into the bibliography, as another bedside book for the Members to bear in mind.
3498	As the author is not present, Question No 32 lapses.
3499	I apologise to Mr Vitorino for this parliamentary discourtesy. I am sorry.
3500	According to the Rules of Procedure, you are not required to reply.
3501	I wish you a good evening.
3502	Second Part
3503	Questions to Mr Nielson, who is replaced by Mr Patten
3504	Questions 33 and 34 of Questions to the Commission were intended for Mr Nielson.
3505	Mr Nielson cannot be present today since he is in South Africa.
3506	I must tell you that the Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Loyola de Palacio, has sent me a kind letter giving me all sorts of explanations and informing me that Mr Patten will reply to the questions.
3507	Question No 33 by (H-0829/99):
3508	Subject: 'Mainstreaming' in EU aid policy In 1995 the Council drew up guidelines for integrating the equal opportunities dimension ('mainstreaming') into the full range of EU aid policy.
3509	The guidelines call for all staff working in the development sector to receive continuous training in 'gender mainstreaming' but in recent years only around 50 people have been trained and there is still no compulsory training in the subject within the Directorate-General for Development.
3510	'Mainstreaming' means taking account of equality between women and men as an integral part of all forms of development policy, strategy and measures.
3511	To achieve that, the Council's guidelines must be implemented in their entirety.
3512	Current staff must receive compulsory training in equal opportunities and 1-2 days' training in such issues should form an essential part of the Directorate-General for Development's introductory courses for new staff.
3513	Is the Commission prepared to take such measures?
3514	Can I first of all emphasise how sorry my colleague, Mr Nielson, was that he could not be here but the honourable Members who are concerned about these development questions will know how important his mission is, trying to ensure that our agreement with South Africa survives.
3515	The Commission is prepared to look at the possibility of making an introduction to gender and development, part of the so-called induction courses for new staff, something that has been done already but not, I admit, on a regular basis.
3516	The training of staff moving to the delegations in the different regions is another entry point.
3517	The training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory.
3518	We also aim to include training in these issues in the basic training that our officials receive in project cycle management.
3519	As far as possible, we want to see this sort of training automatically built into programmes at the outset, instead of having to be tackled separately and later.
3520	My own view as a former development minister is that these issues should be mainstreamed themselves and tackled at the heart of training and not turned into a sort of optional add-on.
3521	The quest for equality should permeate the work of the Directorate-General for Development at all levels. It is not to be brought in as a "sort of optional add-on" .
3522	This must naturally lead to a reformulation of development goals and strategies, together with a transformation of institutions and processes so that both women' s and men' s priorities and needs are better reflected.
3523	In addition, measures must be taken to combat differences on the grounds of gender.
3524	Equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals, action plans and strategies.
3525	It would appear that we are in agreement about this.
3526	However, responsibility for ensuring that due attention is given to equality lies with departmental and unit managers.
3527	If the latter do not have the required professional competence, then nothing will happen and gender mainstreaming will no longer be a priority.
3528	Extremely few members of the Directorate-General for Development, that is to say unit managers and more senior managers, have taken part in the gender courses that have been organised.
3529	Only one manager has participated in gender training, and for half a day.
3530	That is naturally unacceptable.
3531	What is the Commission prepared to do to ensure that unit managers and more senior managers go through the necessary gender training?
3532	Gender has in fact been included in the compulsory introductory course for new employees, but then with only one to two hours devoted to it on each course.
3533	This limited training element has, however, been removed from all introductory courses which have taken place in recent times.
3534	As I point out in my question, one to two days, and not one to two hours, need to be devoted to the subject.
3535	My question is this: is the Commission really prepared to comply with the adopted guidelines for gender mainstreaming at the Directorate-General for Development?
3536	Well I certainly take gender mainstreaming seriously and so does my colleague Commissioner Nielson.
3537	I must not go on about books, but I have just been reading the book by David Landis Barnhill on what makes some countries prosperous and some countries less prosperous and it is interesting to see there the importance that he attaches to gender issues, in the economic prosperity and political stability of societies, going back millennia.
3538	Secondly, in my view, while the training that we are talking about should not be compulsory - after all there is no compulsory training on anything in the Commission - it should be essential.
3539	And, since it should be essential, I would hope that everybody would make certain that they had adequate gender training.
3540	That goes for everybody at whatever level of seniority.
3541	It is not something which more senior officials can deem appropriate for their juniors but think that they are too grown-up or too senior to receive themselves.
3542	Thirdly, one of the best approaches to this issue is to integrate gender as an important and cross-cutting issue into the most popular courses for development officials and above all perhaps for the project cycle management course which is key to good management of projects on the ground.
3543	So I sympathise very much with what the honourable Member has said.
3544	I hope the approach that we are following both demonstrates practicality and the imperative of giving this the attention which it deserves.
3545	Since 1991, the Community has provided significant financial support to the New Independent States including the countries of central Asia.
3546	The major part of European Union aid has been provided under the TACIS programme.
3547	In 1998 and 1999 Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan received technical assistance of EUR 75 million.
3548	This assistance has delivered benefits in all sectors, in particular agriculture, infrastructure development, the private economy and the strengthening of institutions.
3549	Security considerations have prevented Tajikistan from benefiting fully from TACIS but a rehabilitation programme of EUR 7.2 million has been in place in 1998 and 1999.
3550	In addition to national programmes, the European Union has supported important regional actions in the energy, transport and environmental sectors.
3551	Food security programmes in central Asia began in 1996, following two previous years when the European Union provided food aid in kind.
3552	These programmes have benefited Kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent, Tajikistan.
3553	Funding for NGO programmes in Tajikistan amounted to EUR 7.42 million in 1998 and 1999.
3554	Over the same period, Kyrgyzstan received EUR 17 million.
3555	Since 1993 the Commission's European Community Humanitarian Office, ECHO, has been active in supporting the most vulnerable groups and sectors in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.
3556	In 1998 and 1999 EUR 3.8 million was granted to Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan received over EUR 35 million, mainly for food, medical supplies, water and sanitation.
3557	Frequent monitoring and situation assessments have shown that European Union assistance is contributing to the stability of these countries and therefore the ongoing peace process.
3558	Mr President, Commissioner, there is a risk of Central Asia and the Caspian Sea becoming the Balkans of the 21st Century.
3559	That is why it is imperative to stabilise the two major states of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan in particular.
3560	That is why I would like to ask you what you are actually able to do within your own sphere of competence, how the negotiations with regard to the partnership agreement with these two countries are going, that is, with regard to political relations that is.
3561	Of course, that falls within your remit; my next question falls within Mr Nielson' s remit in that it concerns environmental cooperation, in particular matters pertaining to water and the problems surrounding the cotton monocultures, which are the cause of great aridity.
3562	We were able, at the Istanbul Summit a couple of weeks ago, to meet and have discussions with some of the Central Asian republics.
3563	I am very anxious that we should strengthen our relationship with them.
3564	I can send the honourable Member, if he would like, a detailed breakdown of exactly where we stand on the negotiation of partnership and cooperation agreements with each of the Central Asian republics.
3565	Obviously everyone will hope that his prediction of what may happen in the future is on the gloomy side.
3566	But I have no doubt at all that he is right to point to the strategic importance of Central Asia.
3567	I have heard the honourable Member talk in the past about the Caucasus as well.
3568	He is absolutely right to say that a Union which talks about conflict prevention should be looking at what it can do in these particular areas to ensure that there is not the sort of conflict in the future which has caused so much devastation in the Balkans and which has cost us a great deal more than we might have had to spend otherwise, had we taken more pre-emptive measures if those had been possible.
3569	So the honourable Member's remarks about the strategic importance of these regions are extremely well made.
3570	We are contributing to programmes in the region which have some ecological impact.
3571	Our food programmes are directly related to structural reforms in agriculture as well as poverty alleviation.
3572	Those programmes themselves are intended to ensure that agriculture has a more soundly based position in those societies and does not consist simply of raping the land.
3573	There is an ecological aspect which we should continue to give priority to.
3574	We also take good note of the fact that the Member who has asked the question has applauded the Commissioner' s answer.
3575	This is not the usual state of affairs.
3576	And furthermore the Commissioner has not quoted from his bibliography this time.
3577	Thank you very much, Mr Patten, for your interventions today.
3578	Question No 35 by (H-0778/99):
3579	Subject: Greek action plan for employment According to the findings of the evaluation of Action Plans for Employment, Greece and Italy are the main targets for criticism from the Commission for not properly carrying out employment support measures and policies.
3580	The report states that in Greece and Italy targets for improving ?employability? have not yet been reached and it is doubtful whether the policies to be implemented will enable the guidelines on preventing and dealing with long-term unemployment to be complied with.
3581	The report also comments that in Greece there are no plans for medium to long-term measures aimed at reducing employment tax and insurance charges, or for the satisfactory use of European Social Fund resources to support employment policies, and, in addition, that there are no exact employment figures.
3582	Could the Commission say whether the Greek Government has made any specific commitments on how to tackle the problems of youth and long-term unemployment, and what these commitments are? Has the government legislated for and put into place a suitable system for pinpointing, recording and monitoring fluctuations in unemployment, or are most of the measures perhaps still limited to counting those out of work?
3583	As far as Mr Papayannakis' question is concerned, in the 1999 Action Plan for Employment, the Commission proposed certain recommendations for Greece with a view to improving the efficiency of the Action Plan for Employment.
3584	The most important recommendations related to the need to improve efforts to reform public sector services, where problems exist, improve the statistical monitoring system and apply preventive policies in accordance with guidelines 1 and 2 of the Action Plan for Employment.
3585	The Greek Government introduced two specific programmes in 1999 as part of its employment policy: "Yes to Work" and "Back to Work" .
3586	We do not yet have the final results of these programmes and cannot yet tell if the quantitative objectives were achieved.
3587	The Greek Government acknowledges the problem of its being unable to record human resources entering and leaving work and is therefore committed, firstly, to restructuring public sector employment services in Greece, secondly, to setting up efficient employment promotion centres - this programme has already started but has not yet been completed - and, thirdly, to introducing a system of electronic employment cards and using suitable IT systems to monitor all these policies.
3588	In the new programme submitted for the period from 2000 to 2006, which is being financed from the Social Fund, both the resources and the policies should be used, with the Commission' s support, to implement the objectives which I referred to earlier.
3589	The Commission will keep a close watch on the Greek Government in order to ensure that it honours the commitments which it has made.
3590	Thank you, Commissioner for your reply.
3591	However, our current situation is as follows: at 11.3%, we have the second highest unemployment in Europe, which was not previously the case, we have the biggest increase in unemployment, we spend less than anyone else on the unemployed, i.e. less than 1% of GDP, while other countries, such as France, Belgium and Germany spend 3-4%, and it is not clear how the money received from the Social Fund has been used, inter alia, to combat unemployment.
3592	You tell me that you, as the Commission, have made recommendations.
3593	I understand and welcome that and I hope that the recommendations will be adhered to.
3594	However, my question for a very long time has been this: what happened with previous policies?
3595	Did anyone find work?
3596	How many people found work?
3597	If you cannot tell us for this year, then last year and the year before.
3598	What has been done about training?
3599	Is the purpose of the famous training centres to provide jobs for instructors or trainees?
3600	Do we have any figures?
3601	In other words, do we have ways of checking what is happening with this government policy in Greece?
3602	Mr Papayannakis, the only answer I can give you is that the Greek Government does indeed need to step up efforts to introduce computerised statistical records and to set up structures so that the programmes implemented have the quantitative results which you mentioned, and so that monitoring can be carried out and used as a basis for formulating policies.
3603	Greece has seen an increase in the employment rate and, as far as I can see, an increase in productivity.
3604	The action which the Commission can take relates to the specific guidelines.
3605	As you know, there are 22 guidelines on which each country is evaluated.
3606	They concern access to training, the ratio of men to women with access to training, and special action for the long-term unemployed.
3607	The Commission will endeavour, for all these specific guidelines, to quantify the data and to obtain specific information based on the implementation of the new Community framework for 2000 to 2006.
3608	Question No 36 by (H-0782/99):
3609	Subject: Danish early retirement pension scheme Will the Commission state whether the Danish early retirement pension scheme has been approved in its entirety and whether there are disagreements between Denmark and the Commission in other areas of social policy?
3610	The Danish pension scheme, the Efterløn, only allows people resident in Denmark and people who have completed the required period of employment in Denmark to retire.
3611	Some workers have complained to the European Commission because they do not have the right to retire.
3612	The Danish authorities do not consider that they are obliged under Community law to pay this compensation to workers taking early retirement who do not meet the conditions required under Danish law.
3613	It should be noted that the current regulation on social security systems does not at present refer to the question of early retirement and the Commission has proposed certain amendments to the regulation which are, however, still pending before the Council.
3614	There is, as yet, no European Court case law on Efterløn, but it could validly be argued that the residence requirement is incompatible with general clauses now in force banning discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
3615	The Commission services set up a procedure for joint meetings and discussions with the Danish Government with a view to finding a common language and a common approach.
3616	The last meeting on the subject was held in November 1999 and we are waiting for the Commission services' final proposals on whether or not infringement proceedings will be instituted against Denmark.
3617	I noticed that the Commissioner did not give a direct answer to the question of whether the Danish early retirement pension scheme as a whole has been approved by the Commission, but it was indirectly apparent that the answer was that it has not been.
3618	I should like to ask the Commissioner expressly to confirm that the scheme has not been approved by the Commission.
3619	The Commissioner also more than hinted, of course, that a lot of consideration was being given to bringing the whole issue of the Danish early retirement pension scheme before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, specifically on the grounds that the scheme actually discriminates against non-Danish wage earners who are unable to fulfil the conditions, due to the fact that they have not been in paid work for the period required under the Danish system.
3620	I should like to ask the Commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter, for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the Danish socio-political debate.
3621	So I should be grateful if the Commissioner could enlarge upon this question.
3622	Honourable Member, I should just like to stress that both Denmark and numerous other Member States are having problems interpreting the directives and transposing them into national law.
3623	This is one such case and discussions are under way between the Danish Government and the Commission in order to find the best possible solution to the matter, to the benefit of the workers who meet the requirements and who, as things stand, have a right to this pension.
3624	Briefly, just to follow on from that last point, I invite the Commission to make it absolutely clear that the Commission's objections, such as they are, would not in any way infringe the rights of Danish nationals to benefit from this scheme, but simply that the Commission has a concern, which it has the right to have under Community law, to ensure that the scheme applies to all EU citizens who qualify.
3625	I think that the answer is brief and clear.
3626	Of course it is as you say.
3627	There will be no problem with Danish nationals within Denmark, that is not where the problem lies.
3628	The problem is with Danish nationals or other nationals residing outside Denmark.
3629	Question No 37 by (H-0791/99):
3630	Subject: Working time directive Can the Commission say what action it proposes taking to ensure a level of protection, equivalent to that provided by the 1993 working time directive, for non-consultant hospital doctors, who were excluded from that directive and again from the proposal for a Council amending directive (COM(98)0662-C4-0715/98 - 98/0318(SYN))?
3631	A proposal has been drafted for a directive to amend the directive on the working time of non-consultant hospital doctors.
3632	The content of the proposal concerns the average 48-hour working week of doctors, with the possibility, following negotiation, of increasing it to 54 hours.
3633	The Council, Commission and Parliament are all agreed on the content but there is disagreement on the transitional period for implementing the directive.
3634	Parliament has proposed 4 years, the Commission 7 and the Council 13.
3635	This proposal is still being discussed by the Council and Parliament on the basis of the codecision procedure.
3636	Although there is this disagreement, I should stress that all three institutions agree on the content and that every effort is being made to find a common approach to this particularly important and sensitive question which concerns an exceptionally large number of working doctors throughout Europe.
3637	Question No 38 by (H-0805/99):
3638	Subject: Measures to advance gender equality One of the working groups of Commissioners announced by President Prodi has as its objective the promotion of measures to advance gender equality (gender mainstreaming).
3639	Which Commissioners are members of this group?
3640	How many meetings of the group have been held to date?
3641	What concrete measures have been discussed?
3642	This question covers several individual matters.
3643	It refers to the special Commission working group dealing with questions of equality.
3644	The Commissioners taking part are President Prodi, Vice-President Kinnock, Mr Reding and myself.
3645	The meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 January 2000.
3646	Three serious issues were discussed: the first was the first discussion on the fifth programme for women, of which I gave an initial evaluation, the second issue was the report by Mr Busquin on the investigation into the participation of women in research and science, and the third involved Mr Kinnock, who reported to the working group on efforts being made to take account of the gender equality dimension in the overall reforms currently taking place in the Community.
3647	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your reply, although I regret the fact that this working group has taken so long to meet, since this matter is of the greatest importance. We trusted this Commission, from the outset, to begin work on all issues relating to greater equality for men and women.
3648	I hope that, in the future, things will change and meetings will become frequent, because there are many issues which require the attention of the Commission in order to speed up and conclude, as quickly as possible, those measures which will promote greater equality between men and women.
3649	Mrs Avilés-Perea, that was an exhortation rather than a question.
3650	But if the Commissioner wishes to offer doctrine or good intentions ...
3651	Allow me to say just one word. I agree that the working group should have met earlier but at least, once it did, important decisions were taken straight away.
3652	Question No 39 by (H-0807/99):
3653	Subject: Community EQUAL initiative On 13 October 1999, the Commission adopted the Community's EQUAL initiative, the aim of which is transnational cooperation to find and develop new means of combating discrimination and inequalities in the labour market with the focus on asylum-seekers.
3654	Under this umbrella, each Member State is to submit proposals in the form of a Community initiative programme for that particular country.
3655	What criteria will the Commission use to approve or reject the Member States' programmes?
3656	Which Community body will control the funding of the steering group and the monitoring committee and verify that the programme is carried out exactly and correctly?
3657	The European Social Fund contribution for the period 2000-2006 will total 2 487 billion euro. As the EQUAL initiative is a joint funding venture with the Member States, what will Greece's contribution amount to?
3658	The EQUAL initiative is not restricted to certain groups of people.
3659	Its purpose is to combat discrimination in the workplace.
3660	The decision on this initiative was taken in Berlin, where it was decided to take account of professional groups of asylum seekers and to include them in its action.
3661	This is an important aspect of this initiative.
3662	The Community initiative programme in each Member State must comply with the regulation.
3663	This is the same as the Social Fund regulation, i.e. EQUAL comes under the Social Fund regulation.
3664	It has been submitted to Parliament and we expect Parliament' s opinion next month.
3665	I should like to stress that the EQUAL initiative satisfies national requirements and national plans defined in accordance with agreed European strategy.
3666	The Member States, i.e. the national governments, have primary responsibility for setting up the joint agencies, submitting proposals, selecting the proposals which the programmes will implement and carrying out primary control.
3667	Within the European Commission, the Directorate-General for Employment is responsible for implementation, while financial control is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Financial Control, the Anti-Fraud Office and the European Court of Auditors.
3668	The last question concerns the amount granted.
3669	Greece has been granted ECU 98 million.
3670	The contribution commitment is 80%, rising to an 85% contribution from the initiative for the island regions, especially the remote Greek islands, and a contribution by Greece of 15%.
3671	Mr President, I feel that the guidelines for the Community EQUAL initiative, especially the four actions described in it, will result both in complicated bureaucracy and, paradoxically, a non-transparent structure.
3672	For example, one wonders how a development partnership will prove its cooperative spirit or its representative capacity, as required by action 2 in paragraph 33 of the guidelines.
3673	At the same time, the obligation to engage in transnational cooperation, the complicated demands of the plan and the implementation of a development partnership inevitably require large structures, as these are the only structures which can meet such demands.
3674	However, this contradicts the stated aim of the general objectives for decentralised action plans at the level of local authorities and rural areas.
3675	However, at the same time, participation by those actually discriminated against, such as asylum seekers, immigrants and so on, is rendered impossible or merely symbolic.
3676	Finally, if you consider the overall amount, which is on the small side, - EUR 2.8 billion for 15 Member States - and how ambitious the objectives are, I am afraid that all we shall succeed in doing is to prove that unemployment is a bad thing.
3677	First let me say that it would be a great help to us, now that we have reached the stage where this is being processed by Parliament, if you could make specific proposals which we could take into account.
3678	Secondly, I have to say that the aim of the EQUAL initiative is not to reduce unemployment, it cannot possibly deal with the issue of reducing unemployment, or to support an increase in employment.
3679	That is the job of the European Strategy for Employment and the Social Fund, which have huge sums of money and exceptionally large resources at their disposal, especially for countries like Greece.
3680	The EQUAL initiative has a specific mission.
3681	To encourage, to assist promotion, to create statistics, to create studies and agencies to support those sections of the population which suffer discrimination.
3682	So what we are looking for is cooperation between local groups, between local authorities and between countries in order to exchange experiences; that is mainly what we are looking for, and for experience to be transferred from one country to another so that it can be emulated.
3683	This is the philosophy behind the initiative; the budget is commensurate with it and our aim is for development agencies, non-governmental organisations and local authorities to be involved as much as possible, so that it can get as close to the people as possible.
3684	Question No 40 by (H-0808/99):
3685	Subject: Article 13 TEU and Employment The draft Commission Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation gives exemption to religious organisations (Art. 4.2).
3686	Could the Commission please tell Parliament the circumstances and the groups within Article 13 (TEU) likely to be effected by such an exemption?
3687	A month ago, the Commission submitted a proposal on equal treatment in employment, as prescribed in the Treaty, in order to implement Article 13.
3688	The ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted.
3689	At the Commission' s proposal and after approximately two years of consultation with social agencies, Member States and the European Parliament, a number of exceptions have been made.
3690	These exceptions relate to professions which must be exercised by persons with a genuine professional qualification.
3691	Allow me to give you a specific example to illustrate this.
3692	In a religious school, it is logical for an exemption to be requested and accepted in order to ensure that the teacher is of the faith to which the religious school in question belongs.
3693	That is the sort of exemption we are talking about.
3694	Clearly this is not a general exemption and the different approach which allow Member States to introduce special provisions are only justified in the case of this special professional qualification.
3695	This is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination.
3696	For instance, religious schools could quite properly say to a Roman Catholic for example: we do not want to employ you because you are a gay man or because you are a lesbian.
3697	Here we have from the Commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression.
3698	Surely what we should be doing, and I hope you will agree, Commissioner, is engaging the person to do the job on the basis of their capability, and we should not enshrine such bigotry and prejudice, no matter how sincerely held.
3699	I must stress that this exemption is not a refusal of work for any reason, be it the reason which you mentioned, sexual orientation, ethnic discrimination or any other reason.
3700	It allows a choice to be made only where special qualifications are needed which relate directly to the activity in question.
3701	In other words, it is positive discrimination.
3702	In the example which you mentioned, it is only logical that the teacher in a Catholic school should be Catholic.
3703	That is the only form of exemption which is acceptable.
3704	Question No 41 by (H-0813/99):
3705	Subject: Promoting jobs for women in severely less-favoured regions Given the enormous difficulties in obtaining work which women face in certain severely less-favoured regions, and given that these women very seldom have any resources to draw on, in terms of either finance, entrepreneurial or cooperative traditions or even training facilities, living as they do in rural districts where 80% of the population is on the poverty line, what measures or actions are planned to help these women overcome the hurdle of their social environment?
3706	Does the Commission intend to put forward lowest common denominator policies which will properly reflect the admittedly extreme but nonetheless real-life situation of these women, or will their plight once again be overlooked by the new employment policies?
3707	Obviously, the cohesion policy exists for less-favoured regions and cooperation and joint action by the Structural Funds, the Social Fund and the Agricultural Fund exist for the cohesion policy.
3708	I should point out that the funds available for regions with problems account for one third of the total budget.
3709	The aim of these regional policies, which, of course, are implemented under the jointly agreed European guidelines in each Member State, i.e. each Member State is responsible for implementing this programme, is to increase opportunities for work for both men and women.
3710	I should point out that 70% of funding for the period 2000-2006, i.e. EUR 195 billion, will go to the less-favoured regions of Europe.
3711	With particular reference now to the question of access by women to the opportunities which are created, I would like to say, first, that there is, via the Social Fund, an entire equal opportunities pillar which the Member States must implement, i.e. special policies for women which must use Social Fund resources.
3712	Secondly, the LEADER initiative currently being studied gives special priority to development strategies which aim to give special support to women in small enterprises in the agricultural sector and in rural tourism, with a view to increasing the involvement of women in agricultural regions.
3713	Commissioner, thank you for giving me a well-intentioned answer, which has been rigorous and well-argued.
3714	However, I can assure you that we do not, with the existing measures - which you have referred to - reach these severely less-favoured regions.
3715	They are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation, where almost none exists.
3716	Therefore, my question is whether you could examine the possibility that some of the policies on microcredits, which have brought results in cooperation, could be applied to those women in severely less-favoured regions, who have the odds stacked against them.
3717	I am very familiar with the programmes which you refer to.
3718	I can assure you that we are not reaching the areas where there is most need.
3719	With these forecasts of the structural policy - which I know very well - and the forecasts of LEADER and rural development, we will not promote, as we should, employment amongst women in the severely less-favoured regions.
3720	I would therefore ask you to study the possibility of applying microcredit policies.
3721	The Commissioner accepts and takes good note of Mrs Izquierdo Rojo' s intervention.
3722	Question No 42 by (H-0817/99):
3723	Subject: Commission's plans for presentation of a new social action programme It is important that the Commission present as soon as possible a new social action programme, setting out a specific plan with a timetable for implementation for both the legislative work in the area of social security and initiatives for framework agreements in the context of the 'social dialogue'.
3724	Can the Commission say what its precise intentions are regarding the presentation of a new social action programme?
3725	We estimate that the Commission' s new social action programme for the next five years will be ready at the end of this summer.
3726	In order to complete the programme and be able to present it, we first need to complete our consultations with Parliament, the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
3727	These discussions have already started, but we will need to take account of the results in Lisbon.
3728	The Lisbon European Council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society, economic policy and reforms.
3729	These results will be most important in shaping the Commission' s social programme.
3730	I have already told the European Parliament that a joint meeting will be held in April between Parliament and the Commission, after the Lisbon conference, so that all aspects can be discussed and the social programme for 2000-2006 can finally be drafted.
3731	Clearly, any future social action programme should take account of developments, for example within information technology, and, in time, become a modern social action programme.
3732	But can you also provide confirmation concerning the matter I raise in my question, namely that the programme will be designed in such a way that we shall obtain a concrete timetable for the various types of legislation in the social sphere which the Commission is planning, as well as for those initiatives which the Commission is planning with regard to dialogue between the two sides of industry?
3733	We need to see which concrete alternatives the Commission will adopt during the coming period and which initiatives it will take for the purpose of reaching agreements.
3734	Firstly, I agree with you entirely. Account will be taken of the information society; that was something which I too mentioned.
3735	Social exclusion, the programme for women, the efforts we are making in the social protection area, everything needs to be looked at now in the light of the new reality of the information society.
3736	Secondly, there will obviously be timetables for the initiatives within which systematic monitoring will also have to be implemented.
3737	Where I cannot commit myself is on your reference to legislative work in the social security area which, as you know, is not included in the articles of the Treaty and there is no legal basis for social security questions in the Treaty.
3738	Since the author is not present, Question No 43 lapses.
3739	Question No 44 by (H-0819/99):
3740	Subject: Opportunities of the disabled to take advantage of freedom of movement within the EU Under Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, it should be possible for all EU citizens to take advantage of freedom of movement within the Union.
3741	However, for people with various kinds of physical disability who are in need of special transport and personal assistance, freedom of movement is still highly restricted.
3742	What measures is the Commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area?
3743	On 26 November 1999, the European Commission approved a package of measures to combat discrimination.
3744	As far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned, there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination, especially in the workplace.
3745	The European Commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and, in the end, to promote the freedom of movement of these persons.
3746	Of course, it is particularly important for people with special needs to have access to means of transport, services and all types of installation if they are to exercise their right to freedom of movement.
3747	The European Commission has approved a proposal for a directive on special arrangements in buses, coaches and other vehicles, so that people with special needs with mobility problems and people using wheelchairs have access to them.
3748	In addition, you should know that, on 4 June 1998, the Council approved the recommendation for a pan-European type of parking permit to be introduced for people with special needs, the aim of which is to help them travel in all Member States with a common permit so that they can take advantage of all organised parking areas throughout Europe.
3749	I would thank the Commissioner for her answer.
3750	My question in the first place concerns the opportunities the disabled have to take advantage of freedom of movement in Europe.
3751	It is quite an expensive business if you are to travel from Gothenburg to somewhere else in Europe on holiday or on a study visit if you are in a wheelchair and also need to have a personal assistant or carer with you in order to manage.
3752	I am grateful for the fact that the Commission has adopted an action plan.
3753	It is of course a prerequisite, however, that there be financial resources and means of actually crossing the borders physically if you have a disability.
3754	It would be interesting to hear whether the Commission is also prepared to set aside financial resources for those who have disabilities, so that they too might venture further out into the world than merely to where their wheelchairs take them.
3755	I referred to the directive which the Commission has proposed on compulsory arrangements for means of public transport, so that people with special needs can use them.
3756	It has not yet been passed by the Council; it is at the consultation stage.
3757	I think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at European level.
3758	I think it is exceptionally difficult for us to specialise in aid programmes for personal transport.
3759	That is dealt with either under special programmes in education, for young people, for women and for exchanges or must be a matter for national policy.
3760	Question No 45 by (H-0006/00):
3761	Subject: Compliance with Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers The posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in Denmark, even though the deadline has passed.
3762	The draft legislation before the Folketing does not contain any rules governing rights of employed persons under collective agreements.
3763	Pursuant to Article 3(8) of the Directive, terms and conditions of employment must be in keeping with the 'collective agreements which have been concluded by the most representative employers' and labour organisations at national level and which are applied throughout national territory'.
3764	However, such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis.
3765	There are therefore two possible solutions: either the Directive is inapplicable in Denmark, or Denmark is required by the Directive to introduce universally applicable agreements.
3766	Can the Commission confirm that the Directive concerning the posting of workers is inapplicable in Denmark as far as 'collective agreements ... declared universally applicable' (cf. Article 3(1)) are concerned, given that such universally applicable agreements do not exist under Danish law?
3767	If not, will it explain how the Directive is to be complied with in this area?
3768	The European Union posting of workers directive stipulates that the compulsory rules concerning the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the host country must also apply to workers posted to that country.
3769	What it says it that one of two things may apply, i.e. either the legislation in the host country or the collective agreements which have been declared to be the rules universally applicable to a specific sector.
3770	Because Denmark does not have a system for declaring collective agreements to be universally applicable rules, provision must be made in the implementing legislation so that, apart from current conditions of employment stipulated in legislation, the hours in universally applicable collective agreements, concluded by the most representative organisations, also apply to posted workers.
3771	In other words, to put it simply, Denmark has a choice: it can either introduce legislation or it can use the legislative process to choose a collective agreement and legally activate it.
3772	Discussions are being held between the European Commission and Denmark, and Denmark is expected to notify the Commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation.
3773	The deadline by which it had to answer the Commission' s questions expired on 6 December 1999 and we have not received a reply.
3774	We are waiting to see what the next move will be.
3775	Thank you for a very clear answer, the gist of which - if the interpretation is correct - is that the posting of workers directive entails an obligation on the part of the Danish state to establish a system of universally applicable agreements.
3776	It is a very clear answer, but it is also an answer, may I point out, which puts Danish organisations, the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament in a very, very difficult situation politically, for it is a well-known fact that there are a number of basic problems associated with the relationship between the Danish model, which is based quite obviously upon collective agreements, and the Continental model, which presupposes legislation.
3777	The disagreement and the correspondence to which you refer, Commissioner, concern, first and foremost, another directive, namely the working time directive, but now we can foresee another letter of formal notice and further Treaty infringement proceedings looming because the Danish Government does not intend, or has expressly stated that it does not wish, to implement legislation and establish universally applicable agreements.
3778	Firstly, no attempt is being made to change the system in Denmark or in any other country.
3779	As I said earlier, there are always problems interpreting the directives of the European Commission both because they have a very general framework and because systems are very different from one country to another.
3780	As far as your question is concerned, this problem does not only apply to Denmark.
3781	It is not only Denmark which has matters pending.
3782	Five countries have transposed this into national legislation and the rest are at the discussion stage.
3783	What now needs to be done, and this was the reason for the consultations and discussions between the Commission and the Danish Government, and with other governments, is to find the best way forward, so that something which is decided at European level by all the Member States, and which constitutes a general framework, can also include workers posted to Denmark from other countries.
3784	And this is the direction in which we expect the Danish and the other nine governments to move.
3785	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your dedication.
3786	You have fulfilled your objective for today, which is to answer all the questions.
3787	We congratulate you.
3788	Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing.
3789	That concludes Question Time.
3790	(The sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
3791	1997 discharge
3792	The next item is the report (A5-0004/2000) by Mrs van der Laan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on giving discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Communities for the 1997 financial year (Section I - Parliament, II - Council, III - Commission, IV - Court of Justice and V - Court of Auditors) [SEC(1998) 520 - C4-0350/1998, SEC(1998) 522 - C4-0351/1998, SEC(1998) 519 - C4-0352/1999]
3793	The Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, is not here yet, but I hope, and expect, that she will arrive in the next few minutes.
3794	Nevertheless, I recommend that we start, in the hope that the Commissioner will be able to follow the debate, and particularly the rapporteur' s speech, from her office, if that is where she still is.
3795	Mr President, I am sure that Mrs Schreyer must have a very good reason for not being here because her absence would be inexcusable otherwise.
3796	I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report, it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation.
3797	Mr President, early last year, the 1997 discharge was postponed because this Parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning Commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future.
3798	In its resolution, this Parliament stated that discharge could not be granted until we had received serious, far-reaching proposals for reform from the new European Commission.
3799	This report, therefore, appears at a crucial time, on the eve of Mr Kinnock' s reforms.
3800	It is an excellent opportunity for this Parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans.
3801	In the period leading up to this, it already appeared, on the basis of the initial drafts, that the Commission had made very important pledges.
3802	We asked for a whistle-blower' s regulation, and this is now in place.
3803	Parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated.
3804	This has now been done.
3805	Parliament requires a code of conduct for Commissioners and Cabinets.
3806	This is in place too.
3807	Parliament asked the Commission to waive its excessive privileges.
3808	It did this as well.
3809	The Commission has also entered into commitments to cooperate with Parliament in terms of SEM 2000.
3810	Fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices.
3811	These are sound, first steps which illustrate that, if this Parliament so wishes, changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly.
3812	We want more than that, however.
3813	The Commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme.
3814	This is not only necessary for proper public administration, it is a conditio sine qua non of regaining the trust of the European citizen.
3815	We now demand from the European Commission clear pledges concerning the following points.
3816	Firstly, Parliament must have complete access to all Commission documents.
3817	This, however, presupposes that we set up an internal scheme quickly in order to be able to guarantee the confidentiality of sensitive documents.
3818	In the context of providing information, I would like to draw the Commission' s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents.
3819	If the current draft is correct, then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today.
3820	We must put an end to the situation in which financially powerful organisations with representation in Brussels are able to access information whilst the ordinary citizen is not.
3821	Neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents.
3822	We would also like a clear job description for each European official so that an official with conscientious objections can more easily object to tasks which are unethical or unlawful.
3823	Furthermore, it should be the case that, if the Court of Auditors detects a mistake not just one year but two years running, the management should be held responsible for it, and this will have an effect on chances of promotion.
3824	Ultimately, we also need to achieve better cooperation, of course, between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts.
3825	This Parliament has also asked the Commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 March of this year.
3826	It should no longer be the case that, although Europe is an economic power, we have no political influence because, when the chips are down, we cannot offer effective aid to areas which desperately need it. I would quote Gaza as an example.
3827	It is unacceptable that the Commission completed the construction of a hospital in 1996 and that, as yet, it has been left unused.
3828	Mr President, since 1996, the discharge has acquired a heavy, political significance.
3829	It is one of the most powerful weapons Parliament has and must therefore be deployed with care.
3830	This is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow.
3831	However, we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place.
3832	Indeed, the 1999 discharge will not be given until all financial irregularities highlighted by the Court of Auditors have been cleared up.
3833	Finally, this discharge report is naturally addressed to the Commission.
3834	But this does not detract from the fact that the European Parliament should also put its own house in order.
3835	As long as we have no status, we are not credible as a force for reforming the Union.
3836	The reforms of the European institutions are necessary in order to be able to continue Europe' s development process.
3837	We cannot have a decisive and fair Europe unless it is also open and democratic.
3838	All institutions must now join forces in order to work together towards building this type of Europe.
3839	Mr President, the Committee on Industry decided to go ahead and draw up a report on the discharge for 1997 although we were not specifically asked to do so.
3840	We went ahead because we felt we should start this Parliament in the way in which we mean to go on, that is, by making sure that we take good care of taxpayers' money in Europe.
3841	During the course of our work on this report it became clear that there are persistent problems in the spending areas under the control of our budget.
3842	They were not unique to 1997 and two strands seem to run through them. The first is a tendency for the Commission to embark on very ambitious programmes, particularly in third countries, without sufficient assessment of the practicalities of implementation and proper resourcing.
3843	The second involves serious managerial shortcomings in the Commission, in particular in relation to coordination across departments and management of external contracts.
3844	I know that all the Institutions bear some responsibility for the increasing workload of the Commission and for some of the lack of resources. That cannot excuse everything that we came across.
3845	Citizens of Europe expect the European institutions to be properly managed and they are right to do so.
3846	That is why I want to echo the comments from my colleague about the importance of the reform process which has been promised to the people of Europe by Mr Prodi and Mr Kinnock.
3847	From what I have seen of the reform process, it looks good.
3848	I saw some of Mr Kinnock's papers today, I heard some of what he had to say.
3849	I have every confidence that if we and the politicians of Europe support him we will see the kind of reform we need.
3850	But we need that reform process.
3851	Many of the general points raised in our committee's report have been covered in Mrs van der Laan's report.
3852	It is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it.
3853	It seems to hit on all the right points without just being like some of the old reports, a series of details.
3854	It groups them together and that is very important.
3855	There are two issues I would like to draw your attention to.
3856	One is nuclear safety in Eastern Europe.
3857	We have to get this right.
3858	The Committee of Independent Experts said the Commission was not managing this properly.
3859	We have to remedy that.
3860	The second point is about scrutiny mechanisms.
3861	We need from the Commission material we can use to help us scrutinise spending.
3862	We need proper information, given in a proper way and we all have to take this whole process a lot more seriously than in the past. It has been seen as a bureaucratic process to be done as quickly as possible in as little time as possible.
3863	I hope colleagues in this House will support the grounds for discharge for 1997 and, at the same time, that the Commission will push ahead with the reform process which is long overdue.
3864	Only in this way can we create a new culture in the Commission and at the same time get public confidence restored.
3865	Mr President, Commissioner, if we are honest, we find ourselves in a somewhat unusual situation.
3866	We are discussing last year' s discharge, but also the Commission' s responsibility.
3867	I would like to raise the problems which are still piled up high on our desks.
3868	The assessment of whether or not the discharge will be granted also depends to some extent on where the emphasis is placed.
3869	It is about a Commission which is no more.
3870	There is now a new Commission.
3871	Then it is logical to grant discharge, because how can the current Commissioner be blamed where 1997 is concerned?
3872	The problems remain and this gives rise to doubts.
3873	We have to take a decision now regarding the Commission' s good intentions, but there is still no structural outline for these good intentions.
3874	Mr Kinnock will present his proposal next month.
3875	We are all very much anticipating this, but the facts are still missing at this time when we already have to decide whether or not to grant discharge.
3876	It is clearly a dilemma with which the rapporteur has also struggled.
3877	This dilemma stretches beyond the areas which I have already listed. Take, for example, the pledges made by the Commission.
3878	They look good in themselves. I have read a few documents written by Mr Kinnock and we have every confidence in them.
3879	But I will give two examples from which it is not as evident that the good intentions which the Commission has now expressed will lead to a good outcome: the public nature and confidentiality of documents.
3880	The previous speaker already said something about this.
3881	A document is circulating at the moment - not at a low level, but at a high level within the Commission - which, instead of enhancing the public nature of documents, is having the opposite effect.
3882	This is an illustration of empty pledges not necessarily leading to good results. This also applies to whistle-blowers.
3883	Mr Kinnock has also devoted some fine-sounding phrases to this subject but, at the same time, it is entirely unclear, at this moment when we have to make a decision, what, for example, happens with whistle-blowers who want to get something off their chest and cannot do this internally but who want to address the outside world - the press or Parliament.
3884	We have still not had a response to crucial questions of this type.
3885	So there is doubt as to whether these pledges of the Commission contain enough substance at this crucial time when decisions need to be made.
3886	This also applies, for example, to the very real projects which the Committee on Industry has introduced.
3887	In my opinion, the Commission and Mr Kinnock should come with good intentions and with sound plans on personnel policy and financial management, but each Commissioner who is now responsible for an area which has had serious shortcomings in the past should come with sound plans in order to improve the situation and not with general, empty proposals.
3888	At the moment, our group still feels sympathy for, and patience with, the Commission because it cannot be held responsible for a large proportion of the mistakes made in the past, but this patience has a limit.
3889	Clear progress must be visible.
3890	At present, we trust that the Commission will produce these sound proposals, but it is not a foregone conclusion that it will do so.
3891	Finally, Mr President, the 1996 discharge was the beginning of the end of the last Commission.
3892	I express the hope that - in fact, I urge the present Commission to ensure that - the 1997 discharge is the beginning of a true reform of financial policy by the Commission. Otherwise this discharge will not have been of any value.
3893	In assessing the question of whether or not to grant the Commission discharge, the decision must be based upon what actually occurred during the financial year concerned, in this case in the course of 1997.
3894	In our Group, we find it hard to see how the financial administration for 1997 was in any crucial way better than that for 1996.
3895	In that year, we voted against granting discharge. As a result, we shall vote against granting discharge for 1997, too.
3896	We think that this picture of ours is confirmed by the examination carried out by the Court of Auditors.
3897	It is both good and necessary that reforms have been promised.
3898	So far, the promises which have been made are still, however, to be fulfilled, especially where transparency is concerned.
3899	We are therefore going to vote in favour of the demands for reforms which are presented in the resolution, but against the granting of discharge.
3900	Mr President, first of all, I have only positive comments to make on Mrs Van der Laan' s very expert work on this report.
3901	The Union for a Europe of Nations Group cannot vote for approving the accounts for 1997.
3902	The report on so-called discharge contains a comprehensive and extremely critical survey of the accounts.
3903	We support these critical remarks, and I must therefore state that it would seem quite absurd, against this background, to vote in favour of approving the accounts.
3904	It has not been possible for the Court of Auditors to issue an auditor' s statement to the effect that the arrangements covered by the accounts are lawful, and we should regard it as extremely problematic if we, as Members of this Parliament, were to vote in favour of accounts without having any guarantee of the legality of the arrangements concerned.
3905	The majority have made their approval of the accounts conditional upon the new Commission' s implementing a series of reforms, so as to ensure that what we are familiar with from the previous Commission' s period of office is not repeated.
3906	Again, I must say that we are concerned here with an extremely unfortunate confusion of the old Commission' s accountability for 1997 and the new Commission' s accountability for the future.
3907	We do not think that the new Commission, under any circumstances, could incur liability for the past.
3908	We think it is wrong to talk about the Commission' s liability as an institution.
3909	The mistakes up until 1999 are attributable to those who had responsibility at that time, and we still have no way of knowing whether the new Commission can do any better.
3910	By means of this extraordinary procedure, Parliament is stopping itself from placing liability for the arrangements in 1997 squarely where it belongs, namely with the previous Commission.
3911	It was the 1996 accounts which led to the downfall of the previous Commission, and the 1997 accounts are just as incriminating.
3912	There is no reason why, against this background, we should agree to grant discharge.
3913	As far as the decision to balance the accounts is concerned, we shall abstain from voting, and where, finally, the motion for a resolution is concerned, we shall attach most importance to the many correct instructions contained in this and vote in favour of it.
3914	Mr President, the decision relating to discharge for the 1997 financial year was postponed because the erstwhile Commission, to whom it was to be granted, had stepped down before the appointed time and was only continuing in office in a caretaker capacity.
3915	Mrs van der Laan' s report - on which she has lavished a great deal of hard work, and for which we are indebted to her - proposes that we should grant discharge to the Commission for 1997.
3916	One might ask how it is that the current Commission is to receive the discharge for its predecessor' s budgetary management - Mr Camre just mentioned this - particularly as the discharge for the previous year, 1996, was denied.
3917	That is just the way things are, however.
3918	In taking over the mandate, the new Commission has to assume responsibility not just for the achievements of the past but also for the mistakes made.
3919	Since, on account of the college system, discharge can only be granted to the Commission as a whole or, alternatively, denied or postponed, it is no longer of any consequence that four former Commissioners who belonged to the previous Commission that has yet to be discharged, crop up again as Members of this body.
3920	This question ought to have been asked when the new Commission was appointed.
3921	If Parliament votes in favour of the Committee on Budgetary Control' s proposal this week and grants discharge, then the Commission must not take this to be a blank cheque.
3922	For it is the third section of Mrs van der Laan' s report that is the most important, to my mind, namely the motion for a resolution.
3923	The comments contained within, under eight headings, are an integral part of the discharge, the implementation of which forms the basis of our decision.
3924	In the course of the discharge procedure for the coming years - that for 1998 is already under way - Parliament will have to examine, as a matter of urgency, whether or not it was too quick to bestow premature praise on the Commission for 1997.
3925	We will be in a position to judge just as soon as the Commission presents its reform programme.
3926	We will be able to use the discharge procedure for 1998 to check whether efficiency, transparency and accountability, and likewise a sincere willingness to provide information, are being displayed vis-à-vis the discharge authority.
3927	Mr President, we all recall that Parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the 1997 financial year pending commitments from the new European Commission regarding internal reform.
3928	In response to this the Commission has entered into various commitments and has certainly adopted many reform measures.
3929	It is fair to say that the new President, Mr Prodi, and his team are certainly committed to implementing the financial control requirements as laid down by this Parliament.
3930	However, the reform of the European Commission must now be taken in the context of the debate that is going to take place in the run-up to the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and the reform of various EU policies and initiatives.
3931	Existing EU treaties will be amended so as to ensure, for example, that the enlargement process can succeed.
3932	I have no doubt further reform of EU institutions will be analysed in this debate. But from the perspective of small Member States it is important that, as the European Commission is reformed, it must be done in a way that ensures that small Member States continue to have representation on the Commission.
3933	Mr President, the Commission is now to obtain its discharge for 1997, but in reality it does not deserve it.
3934	1997 was a matter for the old Commission and, therefore, the new Commission does not think that it can accept liability.
3935	It is true that implementation of the Budget for 1997 fell within the old Commission' s remit.
3936	The new Commission has, on the other hand, undertaken to carry out a cleaning up exercise following former scandals, and I must admit that I am not impressed at all.
3937	The old mindset which involved sweeping things under the carpet and protecting one' s friends unfortunately still exists.
3938	There are some who think that it is more in our interests to let bygones be bygones and make a fresh start.
3939	I do not, however, think we can make a fresh start if we do not tidy things up properly.
3940	I am referring here especially to the earlier scandals involving ECHO.
3941	I am very indignant about the fact that it is so difficult to get any documents handed over on this matter.
3942	I am the rapporteur for ECHO on the Committee on Budgetary Control, and I shall have a lot of difficulty carrying out my work if the Commission will not give me the necessary information.
3943	From the outside, it looks as if the Commission has something to hide.
3944	My investigations also unfortunately suggest that this could be the case.
3945	The Commission is not putting all its cards on the table and is in that way repeating ancient practice on the part of the Commission.
3946	It was this practice which led to the Commission' s downfall.
3947	I can therefore fully support the demand to give Parliament unconditional right of access to documents.
3948	Otherwise, we cannot carry out our work.
3949	Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
3950	The debate is closed.
3951	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
3952	Response to Second Report of Committee of Independent Experts
3953	The next item is the report (A5-0001/2000) by Mr van Hulten, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on action to be taken on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on reform of the Commission.
3954	Mr President, this time last year the European Parliament set up a committee of independent experts chaired by Mr Middelhoek to investigate allegations of fraud, nepotism and corruption in the European Commission.
3955	On 15 March the committee published its first report concluding that: "It is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility".
3956	Within a few hours of the presentation of the report President Santer announced the resignation of his entire team.
3957	The resignation marked the end of a bitter struggle between an increasingly confident Parliament and a European Commission mired in allegations of scandal.
3958	Since then the Brussels landscape has changed beyond recognition; a new, reinvigorated Parliament has been elected and a new Commission confirmed in office.
3959	Speaking in this House on 21 July President-designate Prodi undertook to take full account of the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on Commission reform, which contains 90 detailed recommendations and which we are debating today.
3960	The new Commission has already taken important steps to move away from the way it used to function.
3961	A code of conduct for Commissioners and their private offices has been adopted.
3962	In a symbolic but significant gesture Commissioners have voluntarily renounced their entitlement to the tax-free purchase of alcohol, tobacco, petrol and consumer goods.
3963	New rules have been drawn up and implemented governing the appointment of senior officials.
3964	The number of departments has been reduced.
3965	The Commission, in my opinion, has shown a clear and unprecedented commitment to change and for this they are to be congratulated.
3966	The overall aim of the reforms must be to create a strong, honest European public administration equipped to carry out its tasks in an effective and efficient manner; an administration in which officials are provided with the means to carry out their tasks and are held fully accountable at all levels; an administration that recognises and rewards merit and encourages officials to develop their full potential.
3967	In order to achieve this, action is required in four areas.
3968	First, financial management and control within the Commission must be improved.
3969	One of the main problems is the lack of a functioning system of financial control.
3970	The Commission's DGs must be made fully responsible for their own expenditure, including financial control.
3971	A new independent audit system service must be set up.
3972	DGs must publish their own annual accounts so as to enable a clear identification of problem areas and set annual targets for reducing fraud and irregularities.
3973	In return for this greater degree of autonomy, managers must be made fully and personally responsible for their actions.
3974	It is clear that the transition to such a new system will take time.
3975	Changes to the Financial Regulation will be required and Parliament must have its say on those changes.
3976	But while the Commission must ensure that it respects the Treaty and the Financial Regulation in the transitional phase, this must not be an excuse for inertia.
3977	Urgent change is required today.
3978	Second, the fight against fraud, mismanagement and nepotism must be strengthened, firstly by creating a culture in which they cannot thrive.
3979	This requires a clear example to be set by Commissioners and senior staff as well as adequate training and secondly, by reinforcing the existing mechanisms for dealing with fraud.
3980	OLAF, the Commission agency set up earlier this year must be placed under the direction of an independent European public prosecutor whose job will be to prepare for prosecution by national criminal courts, criminal offences committed against the financial interests of the Union by Members and officials of the European institutions.
3981	A proposal can be made, a proposal should be made, on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty, by the middle of this year.
3982	Third, standards in European public life must be upheld.
3983	The political crisis which led to the downfall of the Commission earlier this year clearly demonstrated the need for unambiguous and enforceable rules of conduct.
3984	A number of codes have since been introduced.
3985	They must be assessed by Parliament and should be made legally binding.
3986	The European institutions should follow the example of a number of countries, most notably the United Kingdom, and institute a committee for standards in public life, with a mandate to give advice on professional ethics and rules of conduct in the European institutions.
3987	Whistle-blowers who act in good faith must be protected.
3988	At the end of last year Mr Kinnock announced new measures for the protection of whistle-blowers. They must be implemented without delay.
3989	Although such measures can never be an alternative for good management, they must be an escape valve when something goes wrong.
3990	Crucially, reforms must not be limited to the Commission.
3991	Parliament must consider itself the need for improvements to its internal rules, administrative procedures and management practices.
3992	Finally, the Commission's human resource policy must be modernised. It is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern, multinational organisation.
3993	The social dialogue has often acted as a brake on reform and its overhaul is long overdue.
3994	A career with the European institutions must become more attractive.
3995	Too many young, new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years.
3996	Merit must be recognised and rewarded, specific skills training should be a sine qua non for promotion to a higher grade.
3997	The promotions procedure must be made fairer and more transparent.
3998	Last but not least the pay and benefits package must be reviewed.
3999	It must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions.
4000	It must be rid of some of its more outdated elements; and it must deal with the legitimate concerns of the general public who cannot understand why European civil servants should be paid an expatriation allowance indefinitely in a Europe of open borders, or pay a level of taxes that is often well below that of Member States.
4001	Commissioner Kinnock will, tomorrow, present his communication on reform.
4002	This communication must contain a clear timetable.
4003	With a new Commission and a new Parliament up and running the momentum for reform is now as strong as it ever has been and probably ever will be.
4004	Enlargement of the Union is just a few years away.
4005	Now is the time for Europe to put its own house in order; to instil in its institutions - as the independent experts might have said - a sense of responsibility.
4006	In June of last year Europe's voters gave a clear signal that they are fed up with endless stories about mismanagement and nepotism.
4007	There is a very simple way to deal with those stories. Let us get rid of mismanagement and nepotism.
4008	Mr President, I do not want to be misunderstood - I sincerely hope this does not happen - and I should therefore like to start by saying that I am, of course, in favour of combating fraud and firmly support the appropriate, necessary reforms.
4009	This is not a straightforward issue and calls for a much more wide-ranging analysis, but I shall restrict myself to raising only a few points, in order to make people more aware, if possible, of what we are talking about.
4010	All the experts can provide information and news, formulate opinions and give advice, but, they have no political or elective responsibility, and rightly so.
4011	I nevertheless believe that politicians should look into what can be gleaned from an expert report and what cannot be taken en masse in a spirit which, on some occasions, I have felt in the past and still feel to be self-destructive.
4012	I believe - and I shall only pick up on a few ideas - that Parliament alone, and no one else, can exert an influence over its Members. If this were not the case, the European Parliament' s authority and representativeness would be seriously undermined in the coming years, and this institution would not move forward, as it should.
4013	It is just as important for no-one to be able to or have to refuse the European Parliament or its committees any documentation.
4014	Members of Parliament must possess the qualities of morality, discipline and discretion over delegated issues innately, and these certainly cannot be imposed on them by anyone else.
4015	I would point out that there is no European legal system, but that a different legal system exists in each Member State.
4016	We run the risk of delegating issues relating to the same offences which will then be punished in different ways.
4017	I agree that an investigation system should be introduced, but I am also absolutely convinced that we must recognise the right to equal respect for dignity and, in any case, the equal need for the right to a defence.
4018	I am opposed to European Community officials being accused of criminal acts at the drop of a hat: whistle-blowing is a method that has no place in the third millennium.
4019	In conclusion, Mr President, Parliament must introduce a principle of democracy: we must implement reforms which allow Parliament to grow and expand its powers, not go into reverse.
4020	This debate on the van Hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the European institutions since their creation in 1957.
4021	The refusal of the European Parliament to grant discharge and the definitive refusal for the 1996 budget; the motion of censure tabled in this House a year ago for differing reasons; and the first report of the Committee of Independent Experts on the reform of the Commission which led to the mass resignation of the Commission itself, are now part of European folklore.
4022	Those of us involved in these historic events are well aware that none of the upheaval would have been caused had we not acted with parliamentary power to press for changes in the way in which the Commission operated.
4023	Remember that the Council of Ministers, absent again this evening from our debate, approved the 1997 discharge - not the 1996 - on the very day the Commission itself resigned on 15 March.
4024	Now we come to the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts which we already had the opportunity to welcome and briefly debate last September.
4025	Our greatest concern in the EPP is to ensure that public confidence in the European Commission is restored.
4026	Further steps to build a strong Europe will be to no avail if the European peoples perceive that there is no adequate system of democratic accountability for over-zealous officials.
4027	Under no circumstances will we concede ground which we have won over the past few months, which we believe to be in the interests of openness and transparency.
4028	We are therefore concerned to see the flurry of Commission announcements in recent weeks by Commissioner Kinnock suggesting policy proposals of various kinds to be put in a White Paper shortly.
4029	While conveying a desire to proceed rapidly, it also gives the impression that the Commission is in transmission rather than listening mode.
4030	Our concern is strengthened if the rumour reported a few days ago is true - namely that the Commission wants to limit severely the access of Parliament to information.
4031	This was, after all, one of the causes of the downfall of the last Commission.
4032	Have the lessons not been learnt?
4033	The knowledge that the framework relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission still remain to be negotiated led to our disagreement with the rapporteur when we debated his report in committee.
4034	We could, in no way, agree with his view that it would be demeaning for Parliament to set out detailed instructions as to what we wanted the Commission to take up in its reform package.
4035	The less precise, Mr van Hulten, we are in our resolutions, the more room it gives the Commission and your former colleagues in the Council to do what they like.
4036	We believe the vast number of recommendations of the Wise Men' s report should be implemented.
4037	We have, as the EPP-ED group, submitted all the recommendations of the Wise Men' s report in committee and many of them have now been put into the report, entirely changing the nature of the van Hulten report in committee.
4038	We have resubmitted a few amendments which fell in committee, in particular, our desire to see the codes of conduct revised specifically to include the reference to merit and managerial capacity which you, Commissioner, accepted - when we had our hearings last September - should be included in these codes of conduct, particularly when considering appointments and promotion.
4039	Looking to the future, we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the European Commission.
4040	We want in particular to see the hard-working and highly competent norm for Commission officials acknowledged in the outside world - a reputation that has been darkened by the inappropriate conduct of a few individuals.
4041	Commissioner, you will be aware from your presence in the last Commission why the crisis occurred.
4042	In a nutshell: there were programmes being run for which there were insufficient staff resources available.
4043	We urge you to take the opportunity to establish the real staffing needs of the Commission based on the essential activities for which it is responsible.
4044	Our position was made very clear on this topic in the 2000 budget.
4045	We will be vigilant over the next five years to ensure the reforms now being suggested are fully implemented and will support efforts made to modernise institutions.
4046	But, equally, we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by Commission President Romano Prodi prior to his nomination.
4047	Let us hope that we can avoid institutional upheavals by having an ongoing dialogue which assumes from the outset that Parliament will be an equal partner in deciding the outcome of Commission reform.
4048	Mr President, I must start by apologising that I cannot be nearly as dramatic as Mr Elles in my presentation.
4049	Can I first thank Mr van Hulten for this report.
4050	It is an excellent report.
4051	It would have been wrong for Parliament to have put in willy nilly every single recommendation that came from an external body because Parliament should have its own opinion on these issues.
4052	It is right for us to have a focused report which is what Mr van Hulten has produced.
4053	Can I invite Mr Elles not to put the cart before the horse.
4054	Yes, a lot of things were lost by the Socialists but they have not been won in plenary yet, and may I warn him that may not be the case tomorrow.
4055	I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for all his efforts so far.
4056	He has been clear that his commitment has been to produce a radical change.
4057	Central to this is the attempt to produce and engender responsibility.
4058	It is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the Commission.
4059	It is clear that we need to see a change in the Financial Regulation.
4060	That is important.
4061	We need to stop people passing the buck from one to another.
4062	Where failure is occurring within the Commission we need to hold people responsible.
4063	We need to be assured that consistent under-performance must lead to dismissal.
4064	This is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the Commission.
4065	We cannot continue with a situation where incompetence, mismanagement and fraud are costing the European taxpayers money and providing them with a poor service.
4066	I will give you one example of this. In the 1998 Court of Auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to Italian wine cost the taxpayers of Europe GBP 8 to 10 million.
4067	It is clear that is not acceptable.
4068	What happened to the person who was responsible for that miscalculation?
4069	We need a system which provides incentives and promotion and we need to see this promotion based on merit.
4070	We recognise that most of the officials within the Commission are extremely hard-working.
4071	But we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated.
4072	We look forward to reading the full Commission proposal on reform and we look forward to working out the detail alongside the Commission because, unlike what Mr Elles has just said, the Commissioner has made a commitment to discuss it with Parliament between now and 1 March.
4073	We also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones.
4074	The European Parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history.
4075	We have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves.
4076	Our own staff policy is outdated. Some of our working practices need radical reform.
4077	I hope that the European Parliament will be hanging onto the coattails of the Commission in this reform process.
4078	We recognise the proposals on activity-based budgeting. We recognise that means discipline on the part of Commission officials and we recognise also that we have a responsibility within Parliament on discipline when we talk about negative priorities.
4079	Finally, can I say that the Commission needs to work on its relationships with the public.
4080	European taxpayers need to be re-assured.
4081	The fate of the Commission, of the whole European Union, rests on delivery of this reform.
4082	That is the key issue, delivery of these proposals.
4083	Mr President, I would like to start by extending my compliments to the rapporteur, Mr van Hulten, on his first report.
4084	I very much admire him for keeping his spirits up at a time when he was inundated with so many amendments.
4085	I think that the report drawn up by the Wise Men has been useful and I think that it is also useful for this Parliament - as already stated by Mrs Morgan - that we ourselves should ask for expertise from outside for once to see how our administration is run.
4086	We have submitted an amendment to this effect.
4087	From the many points made by Mr van Hulten in his report, I would like to highlight a few, not necessarily in order of importance but just randomly.
4088	Firstly, I think that the Commission should pay much more attention to the proper storage of documents.
4089	The Commission' s records leave a great deal to be desired.
4090	We noticed this when we had to investigate the Flechard affair, which, as it happens, has still not been sorted out.
4091	Curiously, very important documents had gone missing from the cabinets, even from those of the President and of various Directorates-General, and this is clearly something which should not happen.
4092	If Parliament want to carry out proper inspections, these documents must be available, and I would like to know what the Commission intends to do to improve this situation.
4093	I would also like to say a few words about ex post financial control.
4094	This has also been partly dealt with in the van Hulten report.
4095	I think it would be useful if we were to give report figures per category and per sector on how the budget is implemented.
4096	The general impression at present is that anything budget-related within Europe is bad.
4097	It is clear that, over the past couple of years, we have noticed an upward trend in agriculture and a downward one in structural expenditure.
4098	Is this possible?
4099	I would like to suggest to the Commission that it prescribe a deadline by which the reforms have to be carried out.
4100	If we admit new Member States then we need to put our own House in order first.
4101	Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr van Hulten.
4102	It is his first report here in plenary.
4103	This is worth a compliment although I regret, of course, that he did not expound it in his own mother tongue.
4104	It is a report which came about with difficulty and may well be too late.
4105	In my opinion, this is mainly down to the wrangling between the two major groups within our Committee on Budgetary Control.
4106	Let us be honest.
4107	The second report of the Wise Men arrived in September.
4108	We are now four months down the line.
4109	Meanwhile, Mr van Hulten has been inundated with amendments, more than 100 amendments in the first round.
4110	He went back to work, rewrote his report and took into account the very many suggestions, but had to face nearly another 100 amendments in the second round.
4111	My fear is that all of this has contributed to a report which is too detailed, too extensive and too late.
4112	Moreover, I have been informed that the Commission has approved a report - today of all days - on the reform of the Commission which will be distributed for further consultation to the various institutions and also to our Parliament, I hope.
4113	Might Mr Kinnock be able to throw some light on the matter this evening?
4114	Mr van Hulten, my Group of the Greens and regionalists will support the attempts in tomorrow afternoon' s plenary meeting to embellish this report.
4115	After all, it makes no sense to copy the many sound recommendations made by the Committee of Wise Men word for word in your report.
4116	So tomorrow, if we vote against some amendments or against specific paragraphs, this is certainly not on account of their content but rather to render your report as a whole more readable.
4117	In any case, it should be clear that my group, of course, fully backs the recommendations made by the Committee of Wise Men.
4118	In any event, I look forward to the document which was approved by the Commission today.
4119	I also look forward to the White Paper which will be available in February.
4120	I have to inform you, Commissioner, that both the report of the Wise Men and that of Mr van Hulten will become gauges for our group, gauges which should make it clear to us whether we can have confidence in the Prodi Commission or not.
4121	I would like to end on the following point.
4122	Just as the White Paper on food safety was approved last week and released to public opinion with a clear deadline stated, we would request the same in connection with the new White Paper on the reform of the Commission.
4123	I think that there is a need for this, as public opinion is looking for change and, in any event, my group would like to see a clear change by the end of 2002.
4124	Mr President, this report is positive but, actually, we need more than this.
4125	Fraud, mismanagement and nepotism do not come from nowhere. They are most likely to occur if there is little democratic control on cash flow.
4126	Via the structural funds, a great deal of the European budget is being pumped around the system.
4127	This is only useful as long as there is a sense of solidarity where rich Member States contribute to both the revenue and development of poorer Member States.
4128	But there is also funding which is being pumped via Brussels back to the same rich Member States.
4129	Districts and regional authorities consider this as their own money but they can only get their hands on this by investing vast amounts of money and manpower in lobbying and negotiating.
4130	After each incident of improper use of this money, and certainly after fraud, the call for stricter control is more pronounced.
4131	Even the strictest control cannot solve this problem. It will, at best, lead to more bureaucracy and less room for local democracy and for people to get involved in choosing and developing projects.
4132	It would be preferable if national governments channelled this money directly to their local governments without a European detour.
4133	In the next couple of years, we will need to think about the possibility of replacing structural funds by an equalisation fund which is limited to budgetary aid for Member States or their constituent regions with a low income per capita of the population.
4134	This is probably the only way to achieve less fraud, less overheads, more transparency and more democracy.
4135	Mr President, a year has not yet passed, but it is already clear that Parliament is going to evaluate the first and second reports differently.
4136	The first report was widely publicised, formally debated and used - just like the controversy and news leaks which preceded it - to make mincemeat, first of the President of the Commission, and then of the majority of the European Commissioners, even though they had no connection with fraud, mismanagement or nepotism.
4137	Reading now what happened then, not even a year ago, it becomes clear that that first report was intended to do anything but serve the cause of truth or reform, as is maintained today, so much so that this second report - which, on the other hand, could have provided much more salient points - was commissioned with the precise mandate not to address specific cases, since there is no intention to follow up the offences detailed in this report.
4138	It is of no concern to the major groups in Parliament, nor to the majority of the trade unions, who are busy discussing the defence of European public administration, but, in practice, are occupied with the corporate protection of their own members, putting the wide powers afforded to them to dubious use.
4139	Trade union representatives sit on the Disciplinary Board and the Staff Regulations Committee, thereby making it impossible to remove disloyal officials and preserving the Staff Regulations in their fossilised state.
4140	Incomprehensibly, trade union representatives are also members of committees on competition, and I would not be surprised if union members were already members of OLAF, thereby placing this institution which should, at least formally, guarantee its impartiality, at great risk.
4141	I therefore understand why we are meeting at this time, which is usually set aside for other activities and not for debates, discussions and the exchange of information.
4142	Mr President, when it comes to putting its own house in order, the European Commission is in a Catch-22 situation.
4143	There is enormous pressure of expectation following the events that led to the resignation of the previous Commission.
4144	I sometimes have the impression that the more radical the proposals made here in this Chamber sound, the more applause they receive.
4145	There again, it is simply not possible to change situations once and for all with a few strokes of the pen, and the problems begin as soon as we have to start talking about implementation and getting down to brass tacks.
4146	This may explain why we experienced more difficulties than anticipated in the Committee on Budgetary Control as regards this issue.
4147	Nevertheless, the outcome is now on the table and there for all to see, and I would expressly like to thank Mr van Hulten for the work he has done on this report.
4148	Provided this report is not watered-down yet again by the adoption of amendments, it will afford us the opportunity to make clear and unambiguous demands of the Commission on a number of crucial points.
4149	Allow me to start with the most important demand.
4150	We do not want financial control to be abolished.
4151	The financial controller should still be able to make checks before funding commitments or payments are made, not in every case, but wherever uncertainties or risks arise.
4152	The Commission is sending out the wrong signals here, by renaming the Directorate-General for Financial Control as the Directorate-General for Audits, for example.
4153	It may well be easy enough to change the Commission' s organisation chart but it is a different matter when it comes to the legal texts, particularly those relating to budgetary discipline.
4154	I do not have exact figures, but the Community' s budgetary discipline and the associated implementing provisions apply to almost 100 different areas of responsibility of the financial controller, to his or her independence and the tasks assigned to this office.
4155	This cannot be ignored or evaded, certainly not on account of soft law, as was once suggested at a meeting of our Committee.
4156	Irrespective of such legal considerations, it would be an unforgivable mistake, under the circumstances, to scrap financial control in the traditional sense at the very moment when those responsible for such matters in the Commission are, at long last, no longer out on a limb but set to become part of a chain of functioning supervisory and investigatory mechanisms.
4157	As we see it, there will be a dovetailing of three mechanisms in the future: a system of independent prior approval by the financial controller, concomitant and follow-up control by the internal audit service - also known as the audit service - which has yet to be set up, and finally, there will be the targeted tracking-down of irregularities by OLAF, the new anti-fraud office.
4158	It is to be welcomed that Mr van Hulten' s report makes the connection between all three areas and also makes it clear as to where the crucial shortcomings lie, which must be tackled.
4159	A few salient points: the disciplinary procedures are not taking effect, especially when it comes to calling officials to account for their misdemeanours, including those of a financial nature.
4160	There is a large grey area and a great lack of clarity where criminal sanctions are concerned, and it is precisely in this area that the announcements made by the Commission are rather vague.
4161	I can only emphasise that these are the really hard nuts that finally need to be cracked.
4162	Mr President, firstly I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to my colleague, Mr van Hulten.
4163	It is a good feeling to be able to say that he is from our delegation and I am, I think, entitled to feel a little proud of him.
4164	I would in any case like to congratulate him on his report.
4165	Mr President, the Commission' s resignation has also created a culture of fear amongst many officials within the hierarchy and large bureaucracy.
4166	The call to make a cultural U-turn and embrace a culture of responsibility seems to me a very fundamental one.
4167	I have witnessed from close up within the Development Committee how thousands of projects stagnate and how sometimes up to 80% of the money is not spent. Sometimes, an enormous reservoir of money is created, not because it is not desperately needed, not because there are no sound proposals, but because the whole system has collapsed.
4168	A lack of responsibility, too much ex ante, not enough ex post and, as a result, far too little in the way of a culture of real effective spending.
4169	It would be marvellous if this report were to give the green light to result-oriented spending of this kind, with all the work organised on that basis.
4170	When the Commission' s first draft report soon becomes the official report on 1 March, I very much hope that our input here will help ensure that we will actually witness this change.
4171	Without any doubt, this will then be a service, Mr President, to the European public and, by means of the results we produce, we will also regain and re-acquire something which we have ostensibly lost over the past couple of years.
4172	This is the best support we can give to European democracy.
4173	If, in this way, we can move away from the culture of the fifties and cross over into the next century, we are witnessing a very special moment indeed.
4174	Mr President, first of all, congratulations to Michiel van Hulten for his first report.
4175	It was a baptism of fire but we have a saying in the Netherlands appropriate for this occasion: in at the deep end and you will swim in no time.
4176	Mr van Hulten, I think you deserve a medal for your efforts.
4177	There are two points which, in my opinion, deserve special attention on the part of the ELDR.
4178	Firstly, there is the Commissioners' individual responsibility.
4179	This must be regulated during the IGC.
4180	However, we should not like this important issue to end up entirely in the hands of the Council and we have, therefore, submitted an amendment in which we ask whether an interinstitutional agreement could be reached between the Commission and Parliament in order to ensure that we have a kind of fall-back position and are not placing our fate completely in the hands of the Council.
4181	Secondly, as already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Mulder, the ELDR is of the opinion that the European Parliament should also be investigated by independent experts.
4182	This will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the European citizens in this institution.
4183	We at the European Parliament cannot be a credible counterpart to this reformed Commission as long as we do not search our hearts and put our own House in order as well.
4184	Only when all European institutions are reformed will we have the open, democratic and decisive Europe which our citizens now finally deserve.
4185	Mr President, I also wish to congratulate Mr van Hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the House.
4186	I am sure that it will serve, amongst other things, to make his second report more flexible and for him to step up efforts to find a consensus amongst the groups.
4187	At this stage, there can be no delay in the process of reforming the Commission, demanded by our citizens.
4188	This Parliament has often heard the desire to reform the Commission expressed, even by its Presidents.
4189	It now appears that this desire is more serious.
4190	After the resignation of a Commission and after a Committee of Experts has listed an almost endless number of deficiencies, it makes sense that Mr Prodi should have promised, on 14 September, to present this Parliament with a complete plan for reform by February.
4191	This Parliament anxiously awaits this complete reform programme.
4192	The report that we are debating today intends to give political force to many of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts commissioned by this Parliament.
4193	Mr Prodi said he would act anyway, that he preferred to get things right, but that fear of not getting things right would not prevent him from acting.
4194	We therefore ask that his programme be a bold one and, if it is, I can assure him that he will have the support of this House in the reform process.
4195	We want a strong Commission, which can act in an independent and neutral manner, but with political sense.
4196	Commissioners should not be considered senior officials but rather politicians in office.
4197	Therefore, the report allows them to be members of political parties and to be members of political bodies affiliated to their parties.
4198	Perhaps the reference to the posts is imprecise.
4199	I do not know your exact view in this respect, Mr Kinnock, but it is clear that we want Commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed.
4200	We want a structure which allows every Euro to be spent effectively, and our accounts demonstrate that this is not happening at present.
4201	Therefore, Commissioner, we ask Mr Prodi to present us with a bold programme, and he will find that he has problems with those bodies who feel that their status quo is under threat, but not with this Parliament, which expects profound and daring changes.
4202	Mr President, the Santer Commission came to grief because financial control failed all down the line.
4203	Therefore, the future of this new Commission will depend in no small measure on the extent to which reforms are swiftly undertaken here and financial control is back in working order.
4204	As far as this is concerned, a number of people have already referred to the fact that the Commission intends to drastically improve and consolidate its follow-up checks and that these checks should be carried out on a completely independent basis, with no sweeping of matters under the carpet in future.
4205	Naturally, this is only to be welcomed.
4206	What I do not understand is why this has to come at a price, as it were, that is, of having to dispense with independent - and I stress, independent - prior approval.
4207	Up until now, the Commission' s payments could only be made when the authorising officer signed the appropriate order and the financial controller gave his approval in the form of a visa.
4208	And so it is the "two key" principle that applies here.
4209	A single key is to suffice in future.
4210	The financial controller is no longer to make advance checks, if all goes to plan as regards the reforms currently under discussion within the Commission.
4211	If you will pardon me for saying so, Mr Kinnock, what you are proposing is a little like abolishing the police because they were unable to prevent crimes.
4212	What we really need to focus on, however, is making the checks more effective.
4213	This could be achieved by no longer insisting, in future, that the financial controllers furnish every single payment transaction with their approval stamp.
4214	It is precisely those who feel the need to control everything that end up controlling nothing at all.
4215	Therefore, in future, prior approval should take place in a targeted manner, that is, only in cases of uncertainty or risk.
4216	The officials responsible for financial control should be deployed on a decentralised basis, that is, in the operational Directorates-General, amongst those of their colleagues that spend the money, so that they are immediately available when problems arise and so as to render the checks less ponderous and time-consuming.
4217	However, the financial controllers must work independently.
4218	That is the crucial difference between our plans and those of the Commission, when it talks in terms of decentralisation.
4219	It is obviously the Commission' s intention to make the financial control officials subordinate to the individual Directorates-General, but this is precisely what we do not want.
4220	Surely we have learnt this much from the events surrounding the Leonardo affair, when the internal examiners in the relevant Directorate-General issued warnings, but these were neither heeded nor passed on.
4221	Therefore, independence is prerequisite for effective checks.
4222	That is the position which a clear majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control subscribes to.
4223	Indeed, the new Commission has now declared itself in favour of follow-up checks having this independence, and so would it not make sense for a system of prior approval to enjoy such independence as well?
4224	I believe we should set the seal on this point at tomorrow' s vote.
4225	Mrs Theato has already expressed as much and I am only too willing to support her in this regard.
4226	Mr President, a couple of years ago, the previous Commission tried once and for all to tackle rigid and obsolescent structures.
4227	This led to strikes and smear campaigns by intransigent trade unions, whereupon the proposals were abandoned and replaced by a wishy-washy compromise.
4228	This was stupid of the old Commission, and Parliament was of no help on that occasion.
4229	When I read Mr van Hulten' s passage about personnel policy, I am afraid that Parliament may again be failing to tackle the crucial issues and just spouting a lot of hot air.
4230	There are too many rights, too many regulations and too little room for leadership.
4231	There is no backbone, and no teeth.
4232	Where is the beef?
4233	And I would also say this to you, Commissioner: please, deliver the beef even if it is British.
4234	Romano Prodi promised a revolution.
4235	You have said some powerful and worthwhile things yourself, but take care now that you do not dodge the crucial issues, the ones where it hurts!
4236	Sort out the tangle of staff allowances.
4237	Stand firm on the demand for mobility, not as a right, as it says here in the report, but as a management tool.
4238	Ensure too, that training becomes a management tool.
4239	Do not listen to the report' s demands that temporary staff should have their employment confirmed.
4240	It is the posts which should possibly be made permanent and not necessarily those employed on a temporary basis.
4241	Finally, Mr President, as a member of the Bureau until six months ago, I would urge you to address this issue in the Bureau so that we here in Parliament at least comply, in our own administration, with the demands we are making on others.
4242	We have not done this so far, and this is something you ought to be instrumental in changing.
4243	Mr President, I want to thank Mr van Hulten for his report and to say that I voted for it.
4244	So I refer to the things I do not agree with.
4245	I do not agree with the paragraphs in relation to Parliament.
4246	This report is about the Commission.
4247	Parliament is a separate subject.
4248	There is no need for us to bring Parliament into the discussion on the Commission.
4249	In addition to that, there is the question of duty-free.
4250	That was a stick used to beat the Commission by the duty-free lobbies who resented the fact that the Commission abolished duty-free in airports.
4251	It is not worthy of being brought into this report either.
4252	Most of the report is about financial control. That is reasonable because it comes from the Budgetary Control Committee.
4253	But we should not create the impression that vast amounts of European resources are being put at risk by carelessness in the European Commission.
4254	After all, it is only 1% of GDP, by comparison with national spending.
4255	We have had all that before but some people in this Parliament are young and do not seem to understand how small the financial resources of the European Union are and that 80% of these resources are spent by the Member States.
4256	So carelessness within the Commission in the spending of money is not likely to put at risk vast quantities of money.
4257	We should get it into perspective. It is important to remember that.
4258	The business of the European Commission is very little about spending money. They have very little of it.
4259	They have a much wider responsibility. That wider responsibility concerns the management of the environment, food safety, foreign trade, the internal market and so many other responsibilities we have given them without the resources to deal with them.
4260	I am not one of the people who agrees that there is a vast lack of trust.
4261	If there is, we have generated it in this House in the past year.
4262	I have been here for 20 years and found absolute trust between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
4263	We have had our problems and we recognised difficulties but there was not a situation where this bureaucratic Commission was mistrusted, doubted and feared by the citizens of the European Union because they were mismanaging our affairs.
4264	That is a gross exaggeration of what the difficulties were.
4265	This Commission should not have to live forever in the shadow of the mistakes that caused the resignation of the Commission that went before it.
4266	While there were problems - and we have to resolve them in view of enlargement, for instance - we sometimes take the negative side too far.
4267	Mr President, I should very much like to thank the rapporteur for his splendid report.
4268	I hope that the Commission will use it in its reform work.
4269	The process of reform has been going on for some time, and something like a state of emergency seems to prevail in the Commission.
4270	The Commission' s administration simply does not function particularly well.
4271	Naturally, there are good, capable employees in the Commission, and they are in the majority.
4272	But we need radical reform.
4273	There is too little action and too much unnecessary bureaucracy.
4274	People should have clearly-defined powers to take decisions for which they should also be accountable.
4275	The Financial Regulation should be amended.
4276	We agree that we should have better control of the finances.
4277	It is just a question of how.
4278	The Commission and the Committee of Independent Experts are in favour of completely doing away with ex ante financial control.
4279	We should be careful about this. We should retain some form of ex ante financial control.
4280	It is not enough simply to carry out spot checks once the money has been spent.
4281	This would allow too many anomalous projects to slip through.
4282	Instead, we should be reforming and decentralising control.
4283	The Commission does not have enough staff.
4284	As Members of the European Parliament, we must have the courage to explain to our governments and people back home that the Commission' s staff resources are not at all adequate for the tasks which have been assigned to it.
4285	And the Commission should be able to refuse new tasks if it does not also get the extra staff it needs.
4286	The staffing system is too rigid.
4287	There should be a more frequent rotation of employees, especially at the top of the hierarchy.
4288	It should also be much easier to sack inefficient and incompetent employees.
4289	I am therefore very pleased that the disciplinary procedure is to be reformed.
4290	After all, the very bad experiences so far with disciplinary proceedings show all too clearly how necessary it is that we carry out reforms.
4291	Mr President, Commissioners, first of all, I cannot help but reflect upon the fact that this is, on the whole, a Dutch-British-Scandinavian debate where the speakers are concerned. Perhaps this is a little worrying.
4292	I hope, like so many others, that the state of emergency in relations between the Commission and Parliament is on the way to being resolved.
4293	We must get away from the idea that we are rushing to put out a fire in one corner, only then to have to rush again to put out the next one.
4294	As Mr Blak said, we must instead establish a system with clear roles.
4295	First of all, we need tough regulations, which can be implemented.
4296	Codes of conduct and ethical committees are not enough. There need to be tough rules stating, among other things, what may be decentralised, what may be outsourced and what is independent.
4297	I find it a little worrying that people are clamouring for independence in this debate without defining what it is in relation to which there is to be independence and without defining what right of decision-making is to be exercised.
4298	What we need, then, are basic administrative regulations for the EU, for its institutions and for the EU in its relations with the Member States.
4299	These are what are missing.
4300	We have asked for a Public Prosecutor' s Office and criminal law, but we also need administrative law for the EU.
4301	We should make a good deal of progress if the Commission were to adopt, as binding regulations, the ombudsman' s proposal of a code of conduct for good administrative practice.
4302	The van Hulten report is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough.
4303	Secondly, we must also clarify our own auditing roles.
4304	The Court of Auditors is to monitor the extent to which actions are incompatible with the regulations, but it should not examine the expediency of a particular action.
4305	It is the European Parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation.
4306	We do not hunt down criminals. That is OLAF' s job.
4307	Tell me what national parliament, for example, is handed all preliminary investigation documents.
4308	Obstinate as I am, I also want to say that the regulations governing public access to official records must be clearly better than the draft which has been circulating on the Internet. Otherwise, we shall not get anywhere in this fight.
4309	Mr President, I would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report.
4310	I am pleased that I can address him now in Dutch, now that Mr Van den Berg has just done so.
4311	Otherwise I probably would have felt slightly guilty about this.
4312	I would like to say that this report represents a huge improvement, also with its amendments.
4313	I am from the Social Committee and rapporteurs on our committee are always proud to receive 100 amendments because then they know that they have tabled an interesting topic.
4314	I think that this is also the case here, but I think it would be a bit over the top to spend too much time talking about these 100 amendments.
4315	I would also point out that our coordinator on the Budgetary Control Committee is Mr Pomés Ruiz, who is Spanish and has hence made a major contribution to this debate from a Spanish perspective.
4316	Mr President, one of the key aspects which have been mentioned is, to my mind, the rapporteur' s proposal for the standing committee on standards in public administration.
4317	A very important proposal indeed.
4318	I am only very surprised that the Socialist group would like to subordinate this proposal to one tabled by Mrs Morgan, because she wants to scrap it altogether.
4319	I cannot fully grasp the underlying rationale.
4320	On the one hand, we receive all kinds of words of praise for the rapporteur but, at the same time, Mrs Morgan wants to pursue a sort of scorched earth policy on this point and on other key points as well, as a result of which, in fact, the entire content of this report vanishes.
4321	I do not know whether this is to appease Mr Kinnock, but I happen to know Mr Kinnock.
4322	He is happy to hear what our demands are and is quite prepared to be flexible if he considers it necessary.
4323	In my opinion, such a far-reaching scorched earth policy is really unnecessary.
4324	Finally, the issue of officials.
4325	Actually, I do not entirely share Mr Haarder' s view.
4326	I do agree that the section on officials has, in fact, been completed totally inadequately.
4327	First of all, the importance of a public service in general is not at all emphasised.
4328	Secondly, all kinds of proposals are nevertheless being mooted, and we have to ask ourselves whether these are terribly appropriate and whether they would lead to improvement.
4329	For example, we are currently looking into TAOs. This is a key point but, at the same time, we want to abolish temporary staff at the Commission.
4330	These two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other, and I really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table.
4331	Mr President, ever since Plato' s 'Republic' , the Western world has regularly been tempted to replace government by the people with government by experts.
4332	Our Parliament first asked experts to help it evaluate the performance of the European Commission and they took advantage of this invitation to determine, themselves, what its future should be.
4333	In this second report, the experts have gone a step further and criticised some of the political groups in Parliament, which may have hesitated to remove the European Commission from office, since they shared the political affiliations of some of its members. The experts think that this problem will be resolved by banning the Commissioners from belonging to political groups.
4334	According to the experts, Parliament should no longer have the power to supervise the European Commission. This task should be taken over by a committee which will guarantee high standards in public life, and this should be a standing committee, not elected, presumably made up of another group of experts.
4335	In this, their second report, the experts tell us that Italy is financed by the Cohesion Fund, that the ERDF and the Social Fund represent two-thirds of the Structural Funds and that the principles of additionality and complementarity in the Structural Funds come to the same thing. They tell us that the farming lobby is forcing us to finance rural development through the EAGGF-Guarantee and that the principle of partnership only applies to the Commission and to the Member States.
4336	This lesson in wisdom is 100% ideology and 0% knowledge.
4337	This will not help us to reform the European institutions whilst fully respecting democratic institutions.
4338	The van Hulten report started out as a brilliant one and I would like to pay deep and sincere tribute here to what Mr van Hulten achieved.
4339	Unfortunately, it was then changed, and changed for the worse, which turned it into a document which in fact, proposes something that we cannot accept.
4340	Mr President, Mr van Hulten, your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising, arduous and complex, and I believe this is important in a first report.
4341	Please therefore accept what I am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate, and I believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer.
4342	This report seems to me to be redundant, long-winded, confused and lacking in accuracy in the terms used.
4343	Perhaps 'redundant' is the most serious epithet, and you are not responsible for this. It is the responsibility of this Parliament.
4344	That is to say, if this Parliament commissions a Committee of Experts - and I am not going to repeat what Mr Casaca has said, but I agree with him to a large extent - to analyse a problem, where is the sense in indulging in the medieval tradition of criticising the critics and so on, ad infinitum.
4345	Clearly we are awaiting this reform from the Commission, we are awaiting the proposals which the Commission is going to make to us and this Parliament will have to express its opinion on them.
4346	Meanwhile, we have to offer the Commission a vote of confidence.
4347	'Long-winded' .
4348	I am not going to mention the length of this report.
4349	I do not know if it breaks the record for all the resolutions presented here, but, for this type of resolution it certainly does.
4350	I do not believe that there has ever been a resolution - and in this Parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions - which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop.
4351	It is also 'confusing' .
4352	I am not going to return to what has been said about the analysis of questions concerning Parliament.
4353	That should be the subject of another report and we will have to carry one out and consider that issue, but not in this report.
4354	And finally, Mr President, frankly, I am not going to give examples, but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy.
4355	Therefore - in summary - I await, and many of us await, your report, Commissioner Kinnock, so that we can really express our opinion on it, which is the duty of this Parliament.
4356	Mr President, the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are.
4357	When one considers the events that have set these endeavours in motion though, it is only too clear as to why there is a need for them.
4358	Hopes and expectations were raised higher still by the strong messages sent out by Commissioners Prodi and Kinnock in plenary and in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
4359	The concept of transparency stands out in the report.
4360	Securing this is a major priority.
4361	The importance of smooth-running, comprehensible work cannot possibly be emphasised enough.
4362	This is not just about bureaucratic reform, however; rather, it is about showing good will towards the citizens.
4363	We must win back their faith in EU politics.
4364	The citizens demand rapid and open access to the institutions and call for EU provisions to be comprehensible to them.
4365	This is what enables them to understand what is going on. They want to see the politics of success and believe that this is how any politically mature citizen could expect to be served
4366	Whether or not the reforms succeed depends, to a very large extent, on the Commission' s own initiative.
4367	However, it annoyed me when I heard today that the Commission is now saying that it only wishes to discuss the interim report with Parliament on an informal basis.
4368	However, Mr Kinnock, your presentation to the Committee on Budgetary Control this coming Tuesday must not just be a one-way street; rather, as Parliamentarians, we want, and must, play a part in this and it also goes against my understanding of politics when I find that yet another press conference has taken place this week, before we have had chance to carefully discuss the submission in the competent Committee on Budgetary Control.
4369	I believe, Mr Kinnock, that notwithstanding all the success achieved on a personal level, the Commission still has quite a lot to do to satisfy our justifiably high expectations.
4370	Can I begin by stating for the record and for the enlightenment of Mrs Langenhagen that the decision for me not to address the full plenary tomorrow and therefore be available for formal responses on the report is not mine and not the Commission's - it was the decision of this Parliament!
4371	So if she has any lectures to offer they are best contained within this House.
4372	She knows me well enough to understand that at all stages in the five years in which we worked together in this House, there has never been a single occasion on which I have refused to account in full, formally and in detail for everything I have done.
4373	Mr President, may I begin by paying tribute to the painstaking and, from what I hear, the pains-accepting work of Mr van Hulten in preparing his report.
4374	Although new to this House he is relatively old in some respects, certainly in his familiarity with the Institutions as a former official - and I think that the value of that is shown by his ability to tackle the complex subject which is of critical importance, as several Members have said, to all of our Institutions.
4375	I thank him and I wish him a long and distinguished career as a representative.
4376	Mr President, as you will know, Mr van Hulten's report on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts is necessarily long and, since I want to make a comprehensive reply, particularly on the issues relating to financial management and control, I seek your indulgence.
4377	Naturally I will not take up any more of the time of the House than is absolutely necessary.
4378	When this House considered the second report of the Committee of Experts last September, I pledged on behalf of the incoming Commission that the report would be treated as a fundamental ingredient in the Commission's reform proposals.
4379	Our efforts to completely honour that pledge will be evident to the House when consideration is given to the reform package that was adopted by the Commission today, well within the demanding timetable that we set for ourselves four months ago.
4380	I am sure that Mr Pomes Ruiz is encouraged by that.
4381	The great majority of the paper's proposals are closely akin to those put by Mr van Hulten and that paper includes - I say to him and to Mr Staes - a very explicit timetable of actions to be undertaken in pursuit of reform.
4382	There is nothing therefore that is open-ended or vague about the report which I have had the honour to compile.
4383	The considered view of this Parliament in the consultation period over the next four to five weeks will for obvious reasons be of great significance.
4384	I would say to Mr Elles that we are most definitely in listening mode.
4385	But he will appreciate - with his customary generosity I am sure - that for us to be able to listen to the response to what we are proposing, it is first necessary to transmit what we are proposing.
4386	Hence the transmission.
4387	Though time forbids me, Mr President, from commenting in this debate on each element in the resolution before the House, I readily give the assurance that the details will be treated as an important input into our reform proposals throughout this consultation and indeed to our work in other relevant areas.
4388	Turning to the main themes of the resolution I offer the following observations.
4389	The need for transparency is rightly stressed, not least because greater transparency in the way in which the Commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the Commission does.
4390	This is essential for an executive administration that must be accountable, not just to this House, but more generally to the European public.
4391	Naturally, sensible safeguards are required to protect specially sensitive information, but the cases where these are needed should be kept to the minimum possible.
4392	I have repeatedly emphasised that, indeed not just as a Commissioner, but in 25 or 30 years of campaigning.
4393	That most certainly is the intention of the Commission.
4394	Financial management and control is obviously a crucial area of reform.
4395	As the House knows and has repeatedly said, the scale and scope of the Union's financial interventions have grown immensely in the past decade without a proportionate increase in staffing or an adjustment in procedures.
4396	Several Members have made that point again in the course of today's debate.
4397	We share the view, forcefully expressed by the Committee of Independent Experts, and repeated in this draft resolution that the time has come for a thorough overhaul of our rules and procedures.
4398	The means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the Commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the Financial Regulation in April.
4399	Parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital.
4400	I share the view expressed by Mrs Theato that it would not be acceptable in any way at all for us to seek to operate new arrangements without a change in the law.
4401	Change in the law is fundamental.
4402	There are preparations which can be made and they are specified and set out with the full reassurances in the reform strategy, but enactment of change in the legislation is obviously of fundamental importance to the operation of the new system.
4403	Essentially - and with legal change - the Commission will systematically move away from the current centralised system of prior approval of each financial transaction by the Financial Controller and instead strengthen the internal control systems within spending departments so that Directors-General are better equipped to take responsibility for decisions with an impact on the European Union budget.
4404	In addition, and to achieve better assurances than those provided under the present system, the new system of decentralised controls must be complemented by setting up an internal audit service - "the second key" as Herr Bösch said, established in a way that is closely consistent with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts.
4405	That service will open on 1 May this year.
4406	It will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation.
4407	The new service will report to me and it will be accompanied by an Audit Progress Board chaired by my colleague, Mrs Schreyer, who I am delighted to see in the Chamber this evening.
4408	As Budgets Commissioner, here responsibilities already include relations with the Court of Auditors.
4409	This Audit Progress Board will ensure effective and rigorous follow-up to internal audits.
4410	I want to emphasise strongly that changing our control systems will definitely not mean relaxing them.
4411	The proposed change will make the systems more effective, both in terms of inputs and in terms of measured and accountable outcomes.
4412	I can also specifically assure the House that we are not going for what is sometimes called "a big bang approach".
4413	Financial control' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate.
4414	I am somewhat surprised that paragraph 10 of the draft resolution does not appear to address the fundamental criticisms of the current centralised financial control function made in both reports of the Committee of Independent Experts.
4415	That committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa.
4416	It was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control.
4417	In addition, I do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the Court of Auditors in 1997.
4418	Naturally the Court will be able to give its considered opinion on the proposed changes to the Financial Regulation but it is useful to recall Mr Karlsson' s comments to this House last month.
4419	"The Commission's internal control" he said "is not forceful enough in preventing incorrect operation.
4420	For instance, the Financial Controller granted a positive a priori visa in most of the cases of mismanagement or irregularities recently uncovered.
4421	At the same time, the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies, notably the same Financial Controller, the Inspectorate General and by some units operating Directorates-General."
4422	The centralised ex ante approval system was doubtlessly originally designed to ensure carefulness but, over the years, it has had the perverse effect of reducing the extent to which managers feel responsible for their decisions.
4423	I do not believe that there is any real disagreement between us on this.
4424	I take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable Members is that there should be a carefully managed transition.
4425	That will most certainly be the character of the change as honourable Members will see when they read the reform strategy document.
4426	Our objective, the committee' s objective, the Court of Auditors' objective is not to abolish financial control, it is to get rid of and improve upon centralised financial control.
4427	Before leaving this area I would add that we agree with the rapporteur that the existing internal audit function must be maintained pending the establishment of the new independent internal audit service in a matter of months.
4428	Turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud, corruption, mismanagement and nepotism: the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by Commission officials of perceived wrong-doing.
4429	As I made clear in the hearings last September and on other occasions, we are at one in the belief that there is value in defining the best possible mechanisms for this purpose although obviously we all hope that it will rarely be needed.
4430	Since June of last year, the OLAF regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities.
4431	We propose to complement those provisions by defining the rights and obligations for officials to report suspected wrong-doing through internal channels but not exclusively within the same hierarchical line.
4432	The possibility of using specified external channels will also be addressed.
4433	We are seeking to implement best practice.
4434	Serious response to reports, confidentiality at early stages and career protection will be assured for people who report wrong-doing in good faith and in ways that do not compromise investigations by untimely disclosure.
4435	As a corollary, there will be safeguards for officials who are the subject of false allegations.
4436	A communication later this year will give full details.
4437	I do not think Parliament will be disappointed by what we will propose. I am persuaded, however, by the suggestion in paragraph 34 of the report on using external bodies to enforce existing provisions on financial liability.
4438	We already plan to reform the existing disciplinary procedures to ensure thoroughness, fairness, consistency and professionalism.
4439	And we will propose the establishment of an interinstitutional Disciplinary Board - something else on which we will need the support and understanding of Parliament.
4440	A communication in June will set out the full proposal for change.
4441	Standards in public life is the next main section of the report before the House.
4442	With the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current Commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework.
4443	This will be taken a step further with a proposal in June for an interinstitutional agreement on a committee on standards in public life.
4444	That is in line with the draft resolution.
4445	An important role for the committee will be to give advice on ethics and standards and to supervise common and separate codes of conduct for the institutions.
4446	I welcome Parliament's support for that.
4447	We are also currently examining how we can most effectively implement the proposal for a classification system for documents, made in paragraph 50 of Mr van Hulten's report.
4448	The draft resolution rightly recalls the Commission's accountability to this Parliament.
4449	President Prodi and Vice-President de Palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the Commission's practical commitment to that.
4450	I hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents.
4451	The point was very properly raised by Mr Elles and referred to by Mrs Thors.
4452	I am sure they are aware that in mid-December we officially received the draft framework agreement with Parliament.
4453	We are now waiting for Parliament to decide when it wishes to begin negotiations on the text.
4454	We are very happy to proceed as rapidly as possible.
4455	The report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform.
4456	I am glad to say to Mr van Hulten and Mr Haarder that the detailed recommendations on recruitment, training, appraisal and the appointment to management positions are very much in line with our own thinking and our own proposals.
4457	I also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions.
4458	It certainly blocks the advance and mobility of people with proven capabilities.
4459	Members, who, in the course of this debate, have properly praised Commission officials, who in the great majority and typically are of high integrity, hard-working and of great capability, are absolutely right in the comments that they have made.
4460	While the reform strategy White Paper will clearly outline our ideas on these and other points, detail and precision are obviously essential.
4461	A series of communications will therefore follow in the coming months. Each of them will be available for reflection and response by this House.
4462	It is, meanwhile, very obvious that we will need to work closely with Parliament, as an institution, on central matters of common interest, notably pay and pensions and the revision of the staff regulations.
4463	On this latter point we are reflecting on whether it might be useful to adopt a framework regulation which makes common provision on leading issues like pay, conditions, staff representation rights and so on, but enables the different institutions to operate implementing rules on other matters.
4464	The early thoughts of Parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome.
4465	I conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the House relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change.
4466	That is most certainly relevant.
4467	We are sure that there will be an important "reform dividend" as the modernisation measures begin to foster increased efficiency and better management in the use of resources.
4468	It is very clear, however, that parts of the Commission services are already very stretched.
4469	Parliament has frequently made that point.
4470	Secondly, it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology.
4471	Thirdly, it is very clear that increased preparations for enlargement must be undertaken.
4472	They are already having implications for resource availability.
4473	It is also clear that if we take on new tasks - which we will surely be asked to do by the Council and Parliament - we will have to identify so-called "negative priorities" and drop those negative priorities in order to create spare capacity.
4474	A central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority-setting into resource allocation under a system of activity-based management.
4475	I want to emphasise, however, that whilst internal discipline on priority-setting will certainly be introduced by the Commission, it can only be fully effective if Parliament and the Council share it and take an equally stringent attitude to the demands made on the Commission.
4476	The Commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of Mr van Hulten's report.
4477	I conclude, Mr President, by thanking the House for its attention during an unavoidably lengthy speech and by expressing sincere gratitude to the rapporteur, to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to the other committees which gave their opinions.
4478	We look forward to working closely with this House on the finalisation of the reform strategy package and then, most important of all, working together with this House on its implementation continually through the years that will be required on such complexities.
4479	The debate is closed.
4480	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
4481	(The sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.)
4482	Middle East peace process (continuation)
4483	The next item is the continuation of the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East peace process.
4484	I am very grateful to the President of the Council for the statement this morning on the Middle East at the beginning of this debate and for hearing some of Minister Gama' s insights, as he arrived hot-foot from the region.
4485	My only regret is that my own commitment to open the European Reconstruction Agency on Monday meant that I could not take part myself in that trip to the Middle East, even though, as I mentioned earlier in the day - which is another story - events conspired to maroon me at Munich airport rather than transport me to Thessaloniki.
4486	Such is life.
4487	I hope that honourable Members will excuse me if I am not able to stay to the end of the debate as I would, in all normal circumstances, wish to do.
4488	The debate was fixed for this morning and on that basis I had arranged to see visitors from the Balkans this evening.
4489	So I hope I can count on the understanding of the House on this occasion.
4490	It is not something, I assure you, which I would wish to make a practice of.
4491	Like honourable Members, I welcome the United States' efforts that have relaunched the Syrian/Israeli negotiations, despite the Syrian decision that they needed more time before resuming the talks that were scheduled to start again today.
4492	There is reasonable hope that a basis for a peace agreement can be built in the near future.
4493	I also hope that progress in the Syrian track will pave the way for an early resumption of Lebanese/Israeli talks which could then advance in parallel towards an overall deal on Israel's relations with its northern neighbours.
4494	At the same time we must not lose sight of the Palestinian track.
4495	The situation of the Palestinians has always been the core issue of the conflict.
4496	A fair and, indeed, generous deal with them remains the key to lasting peace in the Middle East.
4497	Israelis and Palestinians have made substantial progress in implementing the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum.
4498	Although there has been some slippage, I trust that the remaining Israeli troop redeployments will materialise soon.
4499	Similarly, despite the indication the day before yesterday that the timetable for the Framework Agreement on permanent status has been pushed beyond the mid-February deadline, I very much hope that the much more important September deadline for the final agreement on permanent status will be reached.
4500	I was reassured that this was also the view of Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat, when they met on Monday.
4501	Honourable Members will know that one particular concern of ours has been that there should be a resumption of progress on the multilateral track.
4502	This is far from straightforward but we will do what we can to make this possible, in close liaison with the US and Russian co-sponsors as well as the regional parties.
4503	We are charged with particular responsibility for the promotion of regional economic development.
4504	The beginning of the talks with Syria paved the way for a convening of the multilateral steering group in Moscow at the end of the month.
4505	I look forward to attending that meeting and hope that at last we can begin to push things forward again.
4506	The European Union has an important role to play in the peace process, as all sides - Palestinians, Israelis, their Arab neighbours and the United States - have acknowledged.
4507	Nor is our role confined to that of banker.
4508	We must be prepared to act swiftly to support the consolidation of peace in the region.
4509	But we should not kid ourselves: a comprehensive Middle East peace deal comes with a hefty price tag.
4510	The Commission is already considering the implications for the European Union of the recent encouraging developments.
4511	We intend to share our more detailed thoughts on the matter with Parliament and Council soon.
4512	But let me remind honourable Members that the European Union is no slouch when it comes to financial support for the peace process.
4513	We are the largest of all donors to the Palestinians.
4514	We have also offered very substantial support to Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Egypt.
4515	With the Israelis we have established closer cooperation in a number of areas of particular interest to them.
4516	The Community contribution of over EUR 600 million in grants and loans between 1994 and 1998 effectively underpinned the Palestinian authority and contributed substantially towards the reconstruction of the deteriorated physical infrastructure in the West Bank and Gaza.
4517	European Union Member States together contributed another EUR 860 million during that crucial period.
4518	In this context, let me applaud the important steps that the Palestinian authority has recently taken to improve budgetary transparency.
4519	President Arafat will be meeting the Council of Ministers next week.
4520	This will be a good opportunity to address the need to take similarly courageous steps to improve the Palestinian administration and to bolster the rule of law.
4521	The Commission is actively involved in those efforts.
4522	The Commission has also stepped up its planned support for regional cooperation projects between Israelis and Arabs.
4523	We committed more than EUR 20 million for such projects last year.
4524	This package included renewed assistance for people-to-people activities and cross-border cooperation where Israelis and Arabs meet on non-governmental and expert levels.
4525	Members will recall that the European Union is the largest financial donor to the overall efforts in bringing reconciliation to the people of the Middle East.
4526	A number of issues naturally emerge as additional potential targets of Community support in the coming phase of the peace process - among them, helping to consolidate a Golan settlement both in terms of contributing to security arrangements and supporting demining and the rebuilding of communities in the Golan Heights.
4527	Syrian economic development will need assistance for the transition from a wartime to a peace economy.
4528	Reconstruction and rehabilitation of southern Lebanon, the only Middle Eastern area with an ongoing military conflict, will also demand considerable efforts.
4529	We also need to continue our support for economic reform and social development in Lebanon as a whole.
4530	A solution is needed to the Palestinian refugee problem - these are the largest group of refugees in the world, numbering nearly 5 million people - an indication of the enormous challenges ahead.
4531	We must support initiatives increasing the availability and improving the distribution and management of the region's very scarce water resources.
4532	Lastly, but maybe most importantly, we are encouraging closer regional cooperation in a number of areas, bringing all the countries concerned together in a joint endeavour to address their common problems.
4533	It is already apparent that the financial resources currently available for Community assistance to this part of the world will not be sufficient for the magnitude of support that will be required in the event of permanent peace.
4534	I want to underline that point.
4535	I wish insistently to remind the Council and, should it be necessary, Parliament, that we should not continue to allow a gap to develop between our rhetoric and what we are actually capable of doing.
4536	I repeat that a change in the politics of the Middle East will require a gear change in the support that we shall be asked and expected to provide.
4537	I hope I can add that we will want to provide that.
4538	We have made progress in recent months and weeks, as Mr Gama mentioned earlier.
4539	But it is inevitably going to be a tough process with difficulties and disappointments on the way.
4540	We will do all we can to help the process to a successful conclusion and to meet the obligations and challenges that will be created by that outcome.
4541	Lastly, I will repeat for some who have entered the Chamber in the last few minutes, what I said at the outset of my remarks: that I will not be able to stay until the end of the debate, largely as a result of having assumed that the debate was taking place this morning and having fixed a meeting on the Balkans for this evening.
4542	I hope the House will understand that.
4543	Mr President, Commissioner Patten has our understanding.
4544	I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and, therefore, I hope to see him there soon.
4545	The statements we have heard today on the Middle East peace process are very opportune at the moment because of the hurried tour which Minister Gama - whose absence from this debate I also regret - has made of the region, accompanied by other Council representatives.
4546	The tone of the news in the media on the recent events in the area could lead us to take a pessimistic view of the situation.
4547	I honestly believe that an evaluation of this type would not be in accordance with the reality of that situation.
4548	In this sense, I share Commissioner Patten' s positive attitude.
4549	Let me explain: it is true that the Israeli Government has delayed the third hand-over of West Bank territory to the Palestinian authorities.
4550	It is also true, however, that, since the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh agreements, 39% of the territory of the West Bank has been handed over to the Palestinian National Authority, together with two thirds of the Gaza Strip and, more importantly, this agreement has so far been scrupulously complied with, since, under the terms laid down in Sharm el-Sheikh, the Israeli Government has the right to delay that handover.
4551	This is naturally on the condition that the delay does not exceed three weeks, as Prime Minister Barak has promised.
4552	On the other hand, the decision to delay the second round of talks, initiated in Shepherdstown by the Syrian Arab Republic, is undoubtedly significant, but I am convinced that the hopes which were raised on 3 January in that town will not be dashed.
4553	Mr President, the fact that the different groups in this Parliament are tabling a motion for a resolution, in this ever controversial debate, which is the result of a broad consensus, seems to me to demonstrate the clear political will to decisively support open peace processes.
4554	I would therefore like, equally firmly, to express our rejection of the use of violence to resolve differences, which are still no doubt profound, between the parties.
4555	In my judgement, this constitutes a guarantee to both sides, both from a political and a financial point of view, of the commitment they can expect from the European Union in terms of its contribution to the cost of the peace which we all long for.
4556	It is clear to everyone that this is essential to guaranteeing security in the area and to cooperating in the development which is needed to heal the serious social differences which exist.
4557	But this also serves to make a claim, on the part of the European Union, for a degree of political participation in the process which is consistent with its economic contribution - we do not have aspirations to be bankers - and which will be suitably visible to the public.
4558	There is absolutely no doubt that the forthcoming trip by the President of the European Parliament to the region will contribute to this.
4559	Mr President, I want to thank Commissioner Patten for his detailed account.
4560	I should like to say that I agree with the tone which Galeote Quecedo' s speech set here. We in Parliament strongly support the Middle East peace process.
4561	It is, of course, a peace process which is finally under way.
4562	If we think of how the process was looking a year ago, the difference between then and now is like that between night and day, despite difficulties and delays.
4563	I want to emphasise four points. First of all, the Sharm el-Sheikh Agreement contains, as everyone knows, a concrete timetable for the implementation of Israel' s commitments.
4564	This applies both to the interim agreement and to the Hebron and Wye Agreements. While the negotiations on the final peace settlement have begun, I think it is important to keep the two processes apart.
4565	A lack of progress in the final status negotiations should not jeopardise implementation of the three above-mentioned interim agreements.
4566	What we need to look out for in this context is how matters develop in connection with the harbours in Gaza, the northern transit route between Gaza and the West Bank, further releases of political prisoners and implementation of the financial commitments.
4567	The second point relates to Syria. There, the border question is obviously central.
4568	How negotiations are proceeding there, we still do not know.
4569	What is important, however, is that they have begun.
4570	An important question in this context is the future distribution of water.
4571	As things are at present, the Golan Heights account for between a third and a sixth of Israel's water supply.
4572	The third aspect is the peace negotiations in Syria which are closely linked to the issue of Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon.
4573	According to UNIFIL, there are now concrete signs that Israel is preparing to withdraw, which is something we welcome.
4574	There too, of course, outstanding matters in dispute are the water problem and the situation of the Lebanese Palestinian refugees.
4575	My last point concerns the future Palestinian State.
4576	This may be proclaimed in the course of this year, with or without Israel' s support.
4577	The Barak government has given to understand that it intends to conclude a peace agreement with a state as the other party.
4578	Even if negotiations are not completed by September of this year, there is nothing in the relevant treaties to prevent a Palestinian state from being proclaimed after that date.
4579	In this context, it is important for those of us who support the idea of a Palestinian state that the latter should be as Commissioner Patten said, namely a state subject to public control, and that it should be a democratic state.
4580	This is something to which we all want to contribute.
4581	Mr President, I would like to refer, firstly and above all, to the joint resolution which will be laid down to round off this debate.
4582	My Group has made a contribution to this resolution and, needless to say, approves of it. More specifically, however, I would like to express our delight at the fact that, after such a long time, Israel and Syria are on speaking terms again to resolve their differences of opinion.
4583	The recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the Middle East.
4584	It is, therefore, regrettable that these peace talks have been suspended for the time being.
4585	Indeed, both parties will need to make huge efforts.
4586	Lasting peace in the region can only be achieved by means of an agreement which guarantees the security of the Israeli borders, as well as Syria' s integrity.
4587	It is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue.
4588	In addition to the bilateral meetings with Syria, I hope that Israel will also enter into negotiations with Lebanon within the foreseeable future and that, in the framework of economic and regional cooperation, a multilateral approach will appear possible.
4589	Nevertheless, it is still regrettable that the European Union, one of the most important financial donors, is still unable to play a major political role in the peace process.
4590	This peace process in the Middle East is one of the priorities of the European Union' s common foreign and security policy.
4591	This is where Mr Solana, the High Representative to the Council, could come into his own.
4592	The Commission and Member States also have to be encouraged to support projects which can help develop understanding and partnership between the different nations in the region.
4593	I should also draw your attention to the significance of the Barcelona process which should have a beneficial impact on regional cooperation.
4594	In this respect, we support Libya' s participation, provided that it recognises human rights, renounces support for terrorists and fully supports the peace process.
4595	There are still, needless to say, many unresolved problems and unanswered questions, also involving the Palestinians.
4596	Everyone knows that the peace process is a protracted and difficult affair but we are convinced that, with the necessary trust, perseverance and indispensable political will, our common goal, namely a peaceful and prosperous Middle East, will be achieved.
4597	Mr President, it is pleasing that, despite certain delays and problems, the peace negotiations are going on both between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and Syria.
4598	The moment of truth is approaching.
4599	Is Israel prepared to comply with the UN' s resolutions and, in exchange for peace and security, hand back the Arab areas which were conquered in 1967?
4600	Will Israel let Palestinian refugees return or be given compensation?
4601	Will Israel share Jerusalem and the water of the River Jordan?
4602	Will a free Palestine be a truly democratic state and, therefore, reliable as a partner in peace?
4603	Will Syria fully accept Israel' s existence and introduce democracy and the rule of law?
4604	The fact that the main responsibility for the peace process lies with the occupying country, Israel, does not prevent the Arab partners from also having a considerable share of the responsibility.
4605	Peace in the Middle East concerns us all, however.
4606	It is therefore good that the EU should act as a godparent to the Palestinian state.
4607	Against this background, I want to conclude with a remarkable story from Sweden where an international Intergovernmental Conference on Hitler' s extermination of the Jews is being held, which is obviously a welcome initiative.
4608	Of 47 states invited from all corners of the world, not one of them, however, is an Arab state included in the EU' s Barcelona process.
4609	This has been interpreted as indicating that the Arab attitude towards Israel should be regarded by Europeans as being similar to the Nazis' anti-Semitism, which of course is completely incorrect.
4610	The Arab world' s criticism of Israel has been founded upon the same sort of anti-colonialism as, for example, Algeria' s fight for freedom against France.
4611	But today, Egypt, Jordan and Palestine have peace treaties with Israel.
4612	I therefore wonder whether Commissioner Patten does not agree with me that it would have been only right and proper to have invited at least one Arab state to the holocaust conference in Stockholm.
4613	Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Patten very much for the awareness he has demonstrated of the difficulties inherent in the peace process and the challenge that the European Union is taking on to bring it to completion.
4614	It is time to end the era which began with the Balfour declaration in 1917 and the Arab-Israeli war of 1948. It is time there were secure borders and political, social and economic rights in every country in this region, and that human rights were recognised and upheld in Syria, Palestine, Israel and everywhere else.
4615	This is an exercise in sovereignty, and in democracy for each population and every individual, but to this end it is vital for all parties in the conflict to have the courage to strive for peace and rights, and to recognise the other as its partner and not as its subject to whom concessions must be given.
4616	I refer principally to the Palestine-Israel question, but the same also applies to the territories which have been occupied in the Golan since 1967 and in southern Lebanon since 1982.
4617	Israel has to accept its responsibilities, withdraw from the occupied territories and share its water resources but, at the same time, it has to be sure that it will be safe and able to live in peace in terms of economic and political relations with all the countries in the area.
4618	However, Israel is not the only country concerned with security.
4619	The same goes for the other countries, especially for the Palestinians, who are still living under military occupation and whose land even today is still confiscated in areas B and C, despite the Oslo Agreement and subsequent agreements.
4620	Between the period when the Oslo Agreement was signed and 17 October 1999, 174 000 dunams of land were confiscated, 8 462 of which have been taken under Mr Barak' s Government.
4621	Trees have been uprooted, houses are still being demolished and, above all, water supplies have been reduced or refused, especially in East Jerusalem, while the settlements continue and are growing constantly.
4622	Nevertheless, there is no doubt that with the election of the new government, positive steps have been taken: negotiations, at least, have resumed.
4623	But in the Middle East, there can be no stable and lasting peace if the Palestinians do not have their own state, if they cannot move freely within their own territory.
4624	All the international community has to do is implement Resolutions 332, 248, 245 and 194.
4625	We are concerned by the deferment of the building of relations with Syria, as well as Mr Barak' s decision to postpone the withdrawal of the Israeli army and the Sharm el­-Sheikh agreements.
4626	We feel it is extremely important for the European Union to play a political role in negotiations which matches its economic aid.
4627	We cannot be content with a role backstage. We must be leading protagonists while staying off a collision course with the United States, as Minister Gama said.
4628	Mr President, firstly my thanks and appreciation to Commissioner Patten for his comments here today, particularly in relation to the role of the European Union in the peace process, and for reaffirming that our role is not only that of "banker" for the entire operation.
4629	I was deeply disappointed at the news this week that the peace talks between Israel and Syria had been suspended.
4630	I very much hope that a compromise can be reached to overcome this so that the peace negotiations can be resumed at a very early date.
4631	Nevertheless, we cannot deny that some positive political progress has been made in the Middle East of late.
4632	The fact that the Syrian Foreign Minister and the Israeli Prime Minister were recently sitting around the same table in America for the first time in their respective histories is an indication that old hatreds and animosities can be overcome.
4633	Political leaders must show real courage to put in place a framework which can lead to an overall peace settlement within the Middle East.
4634	I know that if agreement can be reached between Syria and Israel, the Israeli Prime Minister will still face real opposition to any new agreement with Syria in any future referendum.
4635	The settlers at the Golan Heights will demand to be compensated and there will have to be guarantees of security.
4636	If Syria would be willing to offer concessions on the security question then the prospects of a successful resolution to the Israel/Syria question might be promising.
4637	On the issue of Palestine, I recognise that there are still some difficulties with regard to the implementation of some aspects of the Wye Agreement.
4638	The key problem areas at the moment include the difficulties of redeployment, as well as the transfer of territories.
4639	The low level of releases of Palestinian prisoners and the fact that the Israeli Government appears to intend halting implementation of building permits already granted, as well as not approving new ones, pose further obstacles.
4640	These issues have clearly been holding up progress on the permanent status negotiations, although, I believe, these talks will not be held up indefinitely.
4641	At present, the main difficulty in approaching the negotiations seems to be that the Palestinians are insisting that the border issue must be agreed upon first, while the Israeli Government says that it should be settled only if a solution is reached on the issue of settlements and security.
4642	Currently, both sides seem to have accepted that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed.
4643	In conclusion, while other countries in the Middle East have had reservations about the overall direction of the peace process, now that the Syrian Government has been brought into the peace process, Egypt and other countries in the region are willing to move forward.
4644	I sincerely hope that, in the interests of improving the safety and quality of life of the people living in the Middle East, all the key protagonists will move forward quickly, in the very near future, so as to reach an overall agreement on all the key matters which need to be resolved.
4645	Mr President, the various motions for resolutions tabled in Parliament more or less represent the situation in the Middle East.
4646	There are those who are in favour of new agreements between Israel and Syria, but only a few focus on the real problem at the heart of the Middle East issue.
4647	Indeed, the time has come to resolve a central problem for global stability.
4648	The time has come for Israel to fulfil its promises of old and definitively withdraw from the occupied territories, at last recognising once and for all the authority of Palestine, whose resumed diplomatic activity will have a secure future while it is under the wise leadership of Yasser Arafat.
4649	It is equally important not to lose sight of the Iraq question, which no one discusses anymore, thereby relegating the problems of millions of women, elderly people and children, the victims of an embargo as arrogant as it is wicked, to oblivion.
4650	I do not know what Syria and Israel will want or be able to do in reality, but I do know that our institution can do a lot and it is time that it attached the same importance to peoples' lives as it does to the ballasts of the cold, colourless, artificial neon bulbs in our lamps, which can illuminate houses but not the world in the third millennium.
4651	Mr President, the Israeli author, Amos Oz, managed to capture very aptly the icy atmosphere at the negotiating table between the Israelis and Syrians recently.
4652	He was under the impression that the Syrians thought that, in exchange for the Golan Heights, all they had to do was to fax the Israelis a receipt.
4653	Oz' s impression is also echoed in the Israeli press.
4654	It contrasts Prime Minister Barak' s personal peace efforts and the distant attitude, even physical absence, of the strong man of Damascus, President Assad, at the negotiations in the United States.
4655	Surely Assad would be Barak' s ideal negotiating partner and not the Foreign Affairs Minister.
4656	And the Israelis were certainly not impressed by the discourteous behaviour of Minister Farouk al-Shara in Shepherdstown.
4657	His behaviour towards Prime Minister Ehud Barak was plainly insulting.
4658	But why pay attention to such detail as basic diplomatic niceties in the face of a tough negotiation process over territory?
4659	Well, the Syrians are quite possibly cutting off their nose to spite their face.
4660	At the end of the day, Israeli voters can still express an opinion on the return of the Golan.
4661	All the resolutions submitted express the sincere wish for greater European involvement in the peace process.
4662	It is, however, very much in doubt whether Brussels can make available the billions of dollars which the Israeli and Syrian authorities require from their peace patron, the United States, not to mention the heavy, equally costly, security guarantees in case of an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan.
4663	I would like to finish off by asking the European Council and Commission a question. How accurate are the press reports which state that the Portuguese Presidency has already pledged troops as a peacekeeping force in the Golan?
4664	Mr President, the truth is that the news of the indefinite suspension or delay of the talks between Syria and Israel is not good news, but nor is it good news that the day before yesterday there was another bomb attack which injured 16 people.
4665	It is clear that, for once, the United States has not been able to secure progress on the restarting of these negotiations, and it is true that the obstacles are difficult to overcome: the Syrians wish to regain sovereignty and jurisdiction over the Golan Heights and re-establish the borders which existed before 4 June 1967, while the Israelis wish, since they consider that it suits their situation better, to have the borders which were set in 1923.
4666	The suspension of the talks between Syria and Israel is not the only delay affecting the peace process in the Middle East.
4667	The application of the framework agreement between the Palestinian authorities and Israel is also suspended at the moment.
4668	After the talks which took place the day before yesterday between the Israeli Prime Minister and the Leader of the Palestinian Authority, the Israeli Prime Minister requested a delay of two months as from 13 February, the deadline for the implementation of the framework agreement on the situation in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
4669	What can the European Union do in these circumstances?
4670	Unfortunately, very little.
4671	It naturally has to support these negotiations, sponsored by the United States; contacts have to be increased; the presence of the European Union envoy, Ambassador Moratinos, who has fulfilled his mission with great diligence and efficiency, within the powers of the European Union, is positive.
4672	But none of this hides the fact that there is a certain sense of impotence, because when the negotiators from each side fly back to the United States this weekend, we will have to remember that, for every 100 dollars spent on the peace process in the region, 60 are contributed by the European Union.
4673	When we consider that a conference will soon be held in Moscow, it becomes clear that the European Union' s presence in this peace process is somewhat pitiful.
4674	I would like to insist to the Portuguese Presidency that we must play a greater role, that it is time to take over and to secure greater participation for the European Union in this process.
4675	I hope that the forthcoming visit by the President of the European Parliament to the region, as well as the presidents of the relevant interparliamentary delegations, will begin an era of greater initiative and a greater presence for the European Union in this complicated and difficult peace process.
4676	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, I should like to thank you for your statements, especially Commissioner Patten, whose analysis I fully share and I shall not, therefore, repeat any of his ideas.
4677	I should just like to make three comments which Commissioner Patten will perhaps see as similar but which, for various reasons, a Member can formulate more openly.
4678	First, I believe that we can welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian authorities.
4679	But we have enough agreements now: Oslo, Wye Plantation, Sharm el-Sheikh.
4680	We have enough agreements; they just need to be implemented.
4681	However, in this regard I share Mr Salafranca' s scepticism when he says that there has been bad news from Israel this week, namely that the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum cannot be implemented within the set timeframe.
4682	My second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel.
4683	I consider this to be very encouraging news.
4684	But we have also learned this week that Mr Barak will not be travelling to Washington and that the negotiations cannot therefore be continued.
4685	I should like to make it quite clear: if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria, the problem in this region will be solved.
4686	On the question of the referendum which various Members have referred to: we must consider if a referendum always needs to be held in order to honour obligations under international law and under the law of nations.
4687	In Germany, there would probably be dancing in the streets if we were to say that we were holding a referendum on payments to the European Union and we shall pay if the German people are prepared to pay.
4688	That would be a similar situation.
4689	My third and last point concerns the role of the European Union.
4690	I should really like to stress the excellent role which Mr Moratinos' special mission has played in the region and the funding which we have provided there, Commissioner Patten.
4691	You know that you will always have our support here in Parliament, and that includes your proposal, and we shall be behind you when the time comes to finance it.
4692	But we must also play a political role and Mr Moratinos cannot play that role in this region on his own; the Presidency of the Council must take action, the EU High Representative for common foreign and security policy must travel to the region and we must do as the Russians did and invite the protagonists of the peace process ourselves.
4693	Then we will have played the role which is commensurate with our participation and our contribution.
4694	Mr President, Commissioner Patten, the recent peace talks begun in the USA between Israel and Syria mark a turning point in the history of the Middle East. It has taken fifty years to reach this point, which will involve some particularly difficult negotiations.
4695	There will be no meeting today in Shepherdstown but we must hope, as Mr Patten said just now, that this postponement of the negotiations due to Syrian requirements will only represent one more step on the road to a peace agreement which will change the face of the Middle East.
4696	This hope is contained in our motion for a resolution. We hope for a fair and balanced agreement based on respect for sovereignties and the right to live securely within safe and recognised borders.
4697	All the foreign troops, including therefore the Syrian forces, must withdraw from Lebanon in accordance with Resolution 520 of the United Nations Security Council.
4698	Dare we hope for an Israeli withdrawal from South Lebanon by July 2000, the date promised by Ehud Barak?
4699	Dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between Israel and its neighbours to the north?
4700	We really hope and believe so.
4701	Never have the parties been so determined.
4702	One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people. There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations.
4703	Following the attack in Hadera on Monday, we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism.
4704	In terms of balance, or should I say imbalance, I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict.
4705	At midday, Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region.
4706	Despite everything, we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington.
4707	Like other Arab countries before them, the Syrians chose the Americans to sponsor the negotiations.
4708	This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image, and this is a fact, not a judgement.
4709	This is now the opportunity to reiterate to Mr Patten, Mr Solana and Mr Moratinos how much we are relying on their efforts to include Europe in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict.
4710	Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process, it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity.
4711	The next item is questions to the Council (B5-0040/99) and the Commission (B5-0041/99), on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the 1999 annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice (Article 39 of the TEU).
4712	Mr President, 1999 was the year of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, of the communitisation of the Schengen Agreement and of the Extraordinary Tampere Council.
4713	These have been the most important moments in the Council' s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
4714	The Council has decided to draw up a charter of citizens' rights - and we rejoice in this; it has decided to implement Article 13 of the Treaty, combating all forms of discrimination and xenophobia, and it has decided to approximate the laws on conditions for admission and residence, as well as guaranteeing residents treatment which is fair and on an equal footing with the citizens of the Union.
4715	It has also reached a political agreement - and we congratulate them on this - on the initial proposals for civil cooperation.
4716	This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework.
4717	They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner, Mr Antonio Vitorino, and we congratulate them on this as well.
4718	Furthermore, they have taken on the task of creating a "scoreboard" to verify the progress made in this area at Community level, but also - and this seems to me to be important - at the level of the Member States.
4719	We are pleased about this and we congratulate the Council on these decisions, despite the fact that, for this House, the Treaty of Amsterdam included one disappointment: that of delaying, for five years, our role, our ability to participate actively, to democratically control this area of freedom, security and justice, as well as the role taken in it by the Court of Justice.
4720	However, if, on verifying the progress made during 1999, which is within the competence of this Parliament in accordance with the Treaty, we leave behind the stage of great declarations and look at the decisions actually taken and carried out, the scene looks considerably darker, Mr President.
4721	It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to, the other begrudges.
4722	Despite all the commitments made at the highest level, the Council did not manage to take the decisions which it had envisaged.
4723	Programmes multiply and overlap and there is no way of ascertaining levels of implementation and effectiveness or, at least, this Parliament is unable to do so.
4724	We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them.
4725	We hope that this presidency will mark the beginning of a change of attitude on the part of the Council towards this Parliament.
4726	I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out.
4727	There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House, for example, about something which should be good news: the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework.
4728	Schengen has been incorporated, as we said earlier, into the acquis, but it has been done with very little transparency.
4729	Not a single piece of information, nor a single consultation, has been addressed to Parliament during this process; neither on the association of the United Kingdom, nor on the incorporation of Greece, nor on the negotiations with Norway and Iceland.
4730	The same is true with regard to immigration policy.
4731	We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports, but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives; they have disappeared.
4732	We hope that 2000 will be the year for action, in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations.
4733	We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament.
4734	The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union.
4735	The Council can act in accordance with Parliament' s decisions, or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project.
4736	If it chooses the second approach, it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom, security and justice is built.
4737	Alternatively, it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions, in order to move forward in another way.
4738	Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit, thus preparing for the future.
4739	Provide the Commission with the necessary resources and recognition essential for it to carry out its work and for it to verify the real progress made at Community level and at the level of the Member States, and we will be - and the Council will be - able to deal with the decisions made at Tampere and move towards a Union which is freer, more just and more secure.
4740	Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is rather moving for me to return to this House in my capacity as a Member of the Council.
4741	I was one of the first Portuguese Members of this House who, in 1986, took the first steps towards the integration of Portugal into the European Union, and I have to say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, that the experience I gained here, political experience, has been extremely important in my life, and that the information we gained and the contribution that we were all able to make towards building Europe definitely marked the years that I spent here, and indeed my life.
4742	So it is with some pride and satisfaction that I find myself here and able to meet up again with some of my colleagues from those days who are still in this House.
4743	The point I wish to make is that the Portuguese Presidency - to which the Minister for Justice, who is handling the field of justice and home affairs, and I myself both belong - wishes to usher in a new era with this Parliament, and to foster the relationship between the Council and Parliament. This will inevitably be influenced by my parliamentary experience in this House, and of course by the parliamentary experience of that great Member of our national Parliament who is now the Minister for Justice and my colleague.
4744	We gave an early signal when, before the start of the Portuguese Presidency, we met with the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs in Brussels.
4745	We were able to invite the Chairman of that committee, Mr Watson, and some members of the committee to come to Lisbon, and to present our views concerning the role of the Portuguese Presidency in this area to them.
4746	And we gave an undertaking then that I now want to repeat formally: during all meetings of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, a representative of the Council, at political level, not an official but a political representative of the Council, from one of our 'cabinets' , will always be involved in the work of the committee ...
4747	(Applause)
4748	and whenever the committee thinks fit, and the Chairman requests it, I myself or my colleague, the Minister for Justice, will come to Brussels to take part in the work of the meeting.
4749	We will accordingly give the Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs the provisional agendas for the Council meetings in March and May, to allow contact to be established beforehand on the subjects to be discussed in the Council. We will do this today.
4750	Turning to 1999, we find ourselves in the special position of taking stock of the German and Finnish Presidencies. I would like to start by saying that, in addition to the replies that we shall be giving here to Mrs Terrón i Cusí, who has presented a proposal on behalf of her committee, we shall also be letting her have a written reply at the end of these discussions.
4751	Furthermore, I would like to say that the Council believes that 1999 was an important year in the field of justice and home affairs.
4752	Cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs was notable for the significant changes wrought by the Treaty of Amsterdam and, as a consequence, for the incorporation of Schengen into the Community framework.
4753	The German Presidency had an important task in this respect in achieving the transition from the Maastricht system to the Amsterdam system.
4754	Then there was the launching of Europol soon after the start of the Finnish Presidency, on 1 July 1999.
4755	There was also a third notable event: the Tampere Summit, a European Council devoted exclusively to justice and home affairs.
4756	The Tampere Summit was marked by a new spirit and by a determination to put the area of freedom, security and justice at the top of the political agenda and to keep it there.
4757	The point that the Portuguese Presidency wishes to reiterate here is that we intend to keep issues connected with the area of freedom, security and justice at the top of the presidency' s political agenda.
4758	As regards our replies to Mrs Terrón i Cusí, I shall try to respond to her questions on home affairs, and my colleague will then address the points relating to justice.
4759	As you know, the Schengen acquis applies in full to ten countries, and in the course of 2000, work will be done with a view to reaching a decision on the acquis coming into force in Denmark, Finland and Sweden, and also in Iceland and Norway.
4760	The Secretary-General of the Council has published a collection of documents covering the entire Schengen acquis, pending publication in the Official Journal once all the translations are available.
4761	This collection is, at present, available in six languages and the remaining translations are nearing completion.
4762	Another issue I wish to raise concerns programmes in the field of immigration and asylum and how they apply to the CEECs.
4763	In March 1998, the Council adopted the Odysseus programme, a programme of training, exchanges and cooperation in the fields of policy on asylum, immigration and crossing of external borders.
4764	It applies to the fifteen Member States of the Union and provides for applicant countries, and possibly third countries also, to be associated with it.
4765	This programme covers the period 1998 to 2002, and the reference amount for its implementation is EUR 12 million.
4766	Applicant countries can be associated with projects selected by the management committee as long as this complies with the objectives of the programme.
4767	The financial envelope envisaged for 2000 is EUR 3 million.
4768	Under the 1999 programme, the Commission received 80 applications for finance, totalling EUR 7.5 million, against a budget for 1999 of EUR 3 million.
4769	The Commission proposed support for 35 projects, of which 12 were for EUR 50 000 and 23 for amounts over EUR 50 000.
4770	With regard to the OISIN programme, and I am now referring to the 1997 budget year, projects were adopted for seminars, training, exchanges of officials, research and studies, and operational actions.
4771	Of 62 projects in all, seven included applicant countries.
4772	As regards SIS, the Schengen Information System, I am pleased to report that the Member States were very positive about its operation and use.
4773	The increase in the number of positive results demonstrates the efficiency of the system and there is a continuing increase in the number of reports.
4774	With a view to developing a customs information system, agreement was reached with the Commission on a system which will permit provisional application of the Convention on the Customs Information System as soon as a certain number of countries have ratified this convention.
4775	Mrs Terrón i Cusí also mentioned an interinstitutional agreement.
4776	I ought to comment on this final point once my colleague, the Minister for Justice, has spoken, but it is obvious that what I shall say is the result of an exchange of impressions within the Council, and in particular between the two of us.
4777	I referred earlier to a new relationship with the Commission and with Parliament, with a view to achieving closer links and providing Parliament with timely information on subjects to be discussed by the Council. I would now like to state before you here that we firmly intend to consult the European Parliament, not only in those cases stipulated by the Treaty, which we are obliged to do, but also to inform and consult Parliament whenever we believe that it is appropriate to widen this type of consultation, and when, in direct contact with the Commission, we believe that Parliament should be able to present its opinion.
4778	As regards information, we will communicate with Parliament on all matters which are important for establishing the area of freedom, security and justice. This partnership between the Council and Parliament, building on the Commission' s role and the excellent work Commissioner Vitorino has always done, will make it possible for the Portuguese Presidency to represent a landmark in establishing this area of freedom, security and justice.
4779	(Sustained applause)
4780	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not have a background as a Member of the European Parliament, you will understand that it is even more moving for me to be here than it is for my colleague Fernando Gomes.
4781	As Mrs Terrón i Cusí said in her speech, 1999 was a year of great expectations in the field of justice and home affairs - an expectation realised with the coming into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, an expectation realised with the conclusions of the Tampere Council, and a fundamental expectation, as from this year, that will be realised in the form of specific actions.
4782	We are all aware that, to this end, it is essential for the Council to approve, as quickly as possible, the scoreboard which Commissioner Vitorino has the remit of establishing. I must stress once again the Portuguese Presidency' s earnest desire for political agreement to be reached on the scoreboard at the informal Council in Lisbon on 3 and 4 March.
4783	Turning to the specific questions that Mrs Terrón i Cusí has put to us, I shall group them into three basic areas: the fight against organised crime, the operation of the Judicial Network, particularly as regards criminal matters, and questions on Europol.
4784	Regarding the fight against organised crime, 1999 marked the implementation of several important actions stemming from the Vienna action plan, which resulted in the signing of the Charter of European Professional Associations, in developments in cooperation and in establishing points of contact between the Member States for receiving information relevant to the fight against money laundering.
4785	And I must not forget the Finnish Presidency' s proposal for a Council decision which is being considered in the Multi-disciplinary Group.
4786	This is an area in which we must carry forward and intensify our work, not just by securing approval for the EU strategy for the fight against organised crime in the new millennium, but also so as to overcome the difficulties associated with the divergence of views that exists, particularly at Council level, on issues concerning the fight against organised crime.
4787	With this in mind I must emphasise the importance we attach to the cooperation we are already establishing with the French Presidency, with the aim of organising a Jumbo JHA-ECOFIN Council.
4788	If this is not to be a mere media event, it will need to be carefully prepared by a joint committee, the composition of which the Portuguese Presidency has already proposed.
4789	Our relations with third countries represent another important aspect of the fight against organised crime.
4790	Here, in addition to the work being done in the group of experts on the Pre-Accession Pact, it is important that it has proved possible to draw up a joint action plan for the fight against organised crime between the European Union and the Russian Federation, a plan which is now being finalised, and to organise meetings of liaison officials from the Member States, in Moscow, and to develop a set of further initiatives.
4791	Another area is EU involvement in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime and its various protocols, and in the conventions being prepared in the framework of the Council of Europe, in particular on cyber crime.
4792	As this is an issue which has become important in the justice and home affairs programme, the presidency believes that it is worthwhile, bearing in mind the principles of Chapter VI of the Treaty, to explore suitable means of providing the European Parliament with improved information on the progress and conclusion of these negotiations under the United Nations Convention.
4793	With regard to the Judicial Network, significant progress has been made, in particular the launch at the end of 1999 of the dedicated telecommunications system of the European Judicial Network, whilst the Multi-disciplinary Group has developed a series of actions to implement the 1997 action plan.
4794	However, we must stress that it is vital for approval to be given as soon as possible to the strategy for the new millennium, so as to give a fresh impetus, while preserving continuity, to the work done under the previous action plan.
4795	Still on judicial cooperation, considerable progress has been made on the legal protection of the euro, and the European Parliament is being consulted on a framework decision which is of fundamental strategic importance.
4796	We believe that if legal protection of the euro is to be credible, we must avoid having a multiplicity of instruments, and we should accordingly make a combined effort in March to approve a single instrument covering all necessary aspects, including those featuring in initiatives already presented by France and those whose adoption the Commission itself has called for.
4797	It is important in this field to implement measures relating to the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, and we believe that on the basis of work already done, it will be possible, at least in the field of seizure of assets, for measures to be adopted in the near future to provide for mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
4798	Lastly then, Europol, which started its work in 1999. The Council approved a set of instruments, with which Parliament is familiar, to make Europol' s operations viable but, of course, the fundamental issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol still remain, and these are issues which have naturally taken on a new dimension in view of the political decision taken in Tampere to reinforce Europol' s powers and, above all, to give it an operational dimension.
4799	The French Presidency has passed an important working document to us which sets out various scenarios for addressing and resolving the issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol.
4800	The Portuguese Presidency will shortly be presenting a working document on the Eurojust network, since although it is not obviously necessary for judicial control of Europol to be a matter for Eurojust, this option cannot be ruled out at present.
4801	For this reason, it is essential that the Council' s debates on the future of Europol and Eurojust should be conducted in parallel, so that conclusions can be reached in parallel also.
4802	I believe that in this context, and in the context of the dialogue that the Council and Parliament will have to establish on the future of Europol and Eurojust, it will be possible for us to find an acceptable institutional solution to the relationship between the Council and Parliament with regard to Europol.
4803	We are familiar with Parliament' s views and we know that Parliament is aware of the views of the Council' s legal advisers.
4804	I believe that it will be possible to find a definitive solution to this question as part of the process of resolving the issue of democratic control of Europol, and that this solution will encourage and reinforce institutional cooperation between all parties involved.
4805	Mr President, Members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, without wishing to compete with the Ministers as regards emotions, I have to say that I am not moved, rather I am disturbed to have two personal friends in the presidency for the first time, and I just hope that this fact will not alter the separation of powers which is essential for the proper functioning of the Union!
4806	I would also like to thank Mrs Terrón i Cusí for having asked the question which has given rise to the first annual debate of this parliamentary term on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, and to thank all the Members who, in their various committees, have actively participated in preparing this annual debate. I would also like to thank the representatives of the national parliaments and of civil society.
4807	In this first speech, I would like to share with Parliament the Commission' s view of the most important events in 1999.
4808	I believe that I can say with conviction and also with satisfaction that 1999 was both a turning point and a year of consolidation by the Union on issues of freedom, security and justice.
4809	It has already been mentioned that the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force in May and this Parliament stated that the most far-reaching innovation in this Treaty was its recognition of the need to establish an area of freedom, security and justice.
4810	At the same time, it also represents a quantum leap in qualitative terms, and a logical and vital step in the development of the Union, in the wake of the establishment of the internal market, the introduction of the single currency and the launching of a common foreign and security policy.
4811	This project is not so much a project of the institutions as a project of the citizens of our common Union.
4812	And it will therefore be necessary to guarantee genuine freedom of movement to all citizens residing in the territory of the European Union, recognising that this is only meaningful if it is rooted in a secure base, with solid foundations in an effective judicial system to which everyone can have easy access, on equal terms, and in which our citizens can have real confidence.
4813	The Union' s commitment to establishing an area of freedom, security and justice was confirmed at Tampere.
4814	I would like to emphasise the strong political message sent out by the European Council, reaffirming the importance that the Heads of State and Government of the Union attached to a fundamental project, together with various political guidelines and priorities which will turn this area into a reality, following a progressive strategy, within a time-frame of five years, and that, above all, the three components of this area should be in balance: freedom, security and justice.
4815	1999 was also marked by the German Presidency' s initiative to draw up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
4816	I believe that at the present stage in the European Union' s development, it would be appropriate to bring together the fundamental rights in force at European Union level in a charter, so as to make them as visible and accessible as possible to our citizens.
4817	As I have already said on a number of occasions, I am in favour - the Commission is in favour - of drawing up a charter which would reflect, on the broadest basis possible and as part of a dynamic process, the common constitutional traditions of the Member States and the general principles of Community law, rather than being a mere statement of the lowest common denominator.
4818	In my capacity as a representative of the Commission, I will ensure that the charter and the actions stemming from it represent an affirmation of a Union based on a set of fundamental rights which are an integral part of Europe' s common heritage.
4819	That is the only way in which we can help to restore the legitimacy of the project of an enlarged European Union in the eyes of every European citizen, an enlarged Europe based on respect for rights and freedoms, with a guarantee of personal safety and safety of property and with effective legal protection, in other words, a Union rooted in the political values which underpin contemporary democracies.
4820	I must not overlook the fact that 1999 marked the beginning of the 1999-2004 parliamentary term of the European Parliament, that it was the year in which the new Commission took up its duties and, as a consequence, the year in which a Commissioner solely responsible for the areas of justice and home affairs assumed his responsibilities.
4821	In addition to these events, I would like to remind Parliament of some items that were approved in 1999.
4822	In the field of immigration, borders and asylum, the Commission presented a proposal for a regulation on setting up the Eurodac database, and a proposal for a directive on conditions for admitting third country nationals into Member States of the European Union with a view to reuniting families, as part of a vigorous policy of integrating legal residents in the territory of the European Union.
4823	We also presented a communication on common procedures concerning asylum and a recommendation for a decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with Iceland and Norway on an agreement designed to extend the rules applied by the Member States of the European Union under the Dublin Convention to those two countries.
4824	The Commission made an active contribution to the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and ultimately, in December, it presented a proposal aimed at establishing a European refugee fund.
4825	In the field of judicial cooperation, the Commission presented proposals for regulations aimed at the "communitisation" of certain conventions. These were the convention on judicial cooperation and the enforcement of judgements in civil and commercial matters (Brussels I), the convention on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial matters (Brussels II), and a third convention concerning the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
4826	In 1999, we also presented a communication on victims of crime in the European Union, which led to discussions that were given greater impetus at Tampere. This communication called for minimum standards for protecting the victims of crime, in particular as regards their access to justice and their rights to compensation, including the cost of justice.
4827	We also presented a proposal for a decision on combating fraud and forgery of non-cash means of payment.
4828	In the field of European Union legislation on combating financial crime, the Commission presented a proposal for an amended directive on money laundering.
4829	In 1999, Europol took up its duties and we in the Commission, echoing the Portuguese Presidency' s statement today, sincerely hope that as we enter a new era in justice and home affairs and discussions start on the implementation of new powers attributed to Europol under the Treaty of Amsterdam, there will also be a discussion of democratic control and of the links between Europol and the relevant judicial institutions, and in particular Eurojust.
4830	In 1999, the Commission also presented its contribution towards a European action plan to combat drugs, which underpins the strategy approved by the Helsinki European Council.
4831	This list of actions, which is not exhaustive, should, here today, in the presence of the Council Presidency and of the Members of this House, help to make it clear that, while 1999 was a year of consolidation for EU action in this key area, it also - I very much hope - represented the start of a new phase, marked by the desire to speed up the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
4832	For this reason, 2000 will no doubt be a year for testing how the EU' s institutions respond to our citizens' demands for guaranteed freedom of movement, with respect for their rights and guarantees of security and stability though appropriate judicial protection.
4833	In other words, 2000 will be a test of the political will to take Amsterdam seriously and to help to build the foundations for an enlarged political Union for the next decade - a test for the Council, for Parliament and for the Commission.
4834	As I have already said, the Commission is aware of its own responsibilities and it is accordingly putting the finishing touches to an initial proposal for a scoreboard so that the institutions and other interested parties can assess the progress made in implementing the required measures and in complying with the deadlines set down in the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the Vienna action plan and in the conclusions of the Tampere European Council. This scoreboard will not just be a mere instrument of legislative planning.
4835	It will also, and above all, be an instrument for increasing transparency and increasing the accountability of all the European Union' s institutions towards the public. It is for the public, therefore, that we are developing the area of freedom, security and justice.
4836	The progress made will not be due to the Commission nor to the Council, nor even to the European Parliament, but to a combination of European institutions and to the Member States themselves, in as much as - as has already been pointed out here - specific tasks on the scoreboard will be entrusted to the Member States under the principle of subsidiarity.
4837	In the coming weeks, I shall be making a tour of capitals to sound out the opinions of the various ministers for justice and home affairs.
4838	I hope to have a debate with the European Parliament and with civil society on this scoreboard project.
4839	And we hope, during the Portuguese Presidency, to present the final version to the Justice and Home Affairs Council, taking account of the soundings that I have just mentioned.
4840	It is my intention that this scoreboard should become an instrument providing political and strategic guidance to all the institutions, and that it should also be an instrument for public scrutiny.
4841	For this reason, and I believe that this is a challenge we are all facing, I recognise the need to develop a communication strategy which will allow us to make the real added value which the Union brings to daily life accessible and visible to the public at large - in areas which are essential for citizenship, for legality and, ultimately, for democracy itself.
4842	In addition to the scoreboard, I would like to anticipate the following initiatives that the Commission intends to present during 2000 - and I would like to emphasise that I am delighted the Portuguese Presidency is treating progress in the area of freedom, security and justice as a priority in its work programme.
4843	I hope that in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency it will be possible to achieve a clear spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, which is also the political message of Tampere, and that this spirit of interinstitutional cooperation will be carried forward by subsequent presidencies.
4844	Regarding immigration and asylum, the Commission intends to present proposals for creating a Community instrument on the temporary protection of refugees; to initiate an analysis of criteria and conditions for improving implementation of the Dublin Convention and consideration of a possible change in its legal basis, in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam; to continue the debate on the basis of the communication already published concerning standards for a common asylum process throughout the Union; and to present proposals with a view to preparing legislation on the granting of residence permits to victims of trafficking in human beings who cooperate with judicial action against networks of traffickers.
4845	I also intend to contribute to the process of clarifying the role of action plans as part of the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and to make progress in adapting Community agreements in the field of readmission by including standard clauses.
4846	Furthermore, on the subject of crossing the external borders of Member States, which is a central issue regarding the free movement of persons, I shall, in the next few days, be presenting a proposal for a regulation updating the list of third countries whose nationals are required to hold visas for crossing the external borders.
4847	Turning to judicial cooperation, in addition to an initiative on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, I sincerely hope that it will be possible to present to the Council a proposal for minimum standards ensuring an appropriate level of legal aid in cross-border proceedings.
4848	I also intend to continue discussions on the preparation of specific common procedural rules for simplifying and speeding up cross-border judicial proceedings relating to small commercial and consumer claims, alimony claims and non-contested claims.
4849	As a follow-up to the Tampere and Helsinki conclusions, the Commission will be presenting its contribution to the preparation of a European Union strategy to combat organised crime.
4850	We will be organising and supporting actions including, in particular, the debate on the need for a legislative programme on implementing mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters.
4851	The Commission also intends to present specific measures in the field of crime prevention, so as to encourage exchanges of best practice in this area, and in particular the prevention of urban and juvenile delinquency; we further intend to present a legal basis for a programme financed by the Community for this purpose.
4852	The Commission will also support the presidency' s efforts to clarify the judicial framework and the framework for police and judicial administrative cooperation in the fight against money laundering, an eminently cross-pillar issue.
4853	The Commission will fulfil the remit given to it at Tampere to present proposals for approving definitions, criminal charges and common sanctions in the field of trafficking in human beings, economic exploitation of immigrants, and sexual exploitation of woman and children, with special emphasis on combating the use of new means of communication, notably the Internet, for distributing child pornography.
4854	We are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime.
4855	The year 2000 also marks the start of the implementation of the European Union Drugs Strategy 2000-2004.
4856	In this field the Commission, in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament, will give its full support to the Interinstitutional Conference to be held on drugs in February.
4857	With regard to Schengen, without wishing to trespass on the territory of the Council, or more precisely the incorporation of the Schengen acquis into the Community framework, I would like to stress, on the topical subject of restoring border controls, that the Commission wishes to reiterate its willingness to ensure greater control of the application of Article 2(2) of the Schengen Convention in order to reinforce its authority.
4858	The recent restoring of certain internal border controls leads me to believe that we need a detailed analysis of the conditions for adopting a legislative instrument based on Article 62 of the Treaty.
4859	As was emphasised at Tampere, and as part of our preparations for the Feira European Council in June 2000, we will have to prepare a summary of the implications of the new external dimension of justice and home affairs with a view to adopting cross-pillar policy strategies, which strengthen the links between the Union' s internal and external policies in this field and help to uphold the Union' s position on the world stage.
4860	Nevertheless, I must make it clear that all these actions will, of course, have to take into account the principles agreed at the Helsinki European Council concerning applicant countries, so that those applicants can cooperate and also be associated as quickly as possible with this project of creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
4861	Furthermore, it is important to remember that 2000 will see the start of the justice and home affairs negotiations with the first group of applicant countries and I anticipate that we will be in a position to make substantial progress in preparing the negotiating dossiers on the second group with which it was agreed to open accession negotiations at Helsinki.
4862	Lastly, I would like to state once again that the Commission intends to be in the pole position in presenting proposals for implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam.
4863	I hope that the Commission and the Council can reach agreement on their respective roles in exercising their right to initiatives and in carrying forward the legislative process itself.
4864	As I have told Parliament, the task before us is immense and ambitious, and the Commission needs to have the necessary human resources to respond to this challenge.
4865	We hope that we can count on the support of Parliament, and - why not say it - of the Council to secure these resources and to achieve these objectives, so that the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice becomes a reality as soon as possible, thus allowing us all to contribute, in a spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, to the realisation of this project, which is, without a doubt, the "jewel in the crown" of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
4866	Mr President, having devoted itself over the last 40 years to establishing a common internal market, the House now faces the major new task of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, a task which we will only be able to master successfully if all the institutions of the Union work together towards this ambitious goal with mutual respect and consideration for each other' s competence.
4867	Commissioner Vitorino, although I would describe cooperation with you as harmonious and profitable, words have often failed me in the past when faced with the conduct which the Council has demonstrated towards us.
4868	It looked, as Mr Schulz once aptly said in committee, as if the Council understood the area of freedom, security and justice to mean an area in which the Council has free rein, security from Parliament and the right to do and order as it will.
4869	Minister Gomes, I have, of course, heard what you have said and I hope that cooperation will clearly improve in this respect during the Portuguese Presidency.
4870	I should like to raise three points which for us, as Members of the PPE Group, must be focal points when such an area is created.
4871	First: a common asylum law must be created and the burden of absorbing refugees must be distributed.
4872	The Council must start by at long last ensuring that EURODAC is adopted in order to create the basic requirement for classifying asylum seekers.
4873	As far as a European asylum law is concerned, a start was in fact made at Vienna and Tampere.
4874	Unfortunately, however, it has highlighted the difficulties rather than proposing solutions.
4875	I therefore call on the Council representatives to look beyond their national boundaries and bring about a uniform asylum procedure for the whole Union.
4876	Similarly, it cannot be right for just a few Member States willing to provide help to bear the entire burden of refugee misery on our continent.
4877	Agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda.
4878	Secondly: the introduction of a Europe-wide fight against organised crime, including by Europol and Eurojust.
4879	The planned introduction of Eurojust is one of our significant successes from Tampere and must now be implemented forthwith.
4880	We welcome the fact that Europol has finally been able to start work.
4881	However, the Council should also bear in mind that, if we are to improve the effectiveness of the fight against crime, we do not only need to widen Europol' s remit, as decided at Tampere; we also need to increase the number of officers and extend its remit to operational activities.
4882	We are not just calling for more control, and more control over Europol; our motto here is "Less is sometimes more!"
4883	With most of Europol employees currently engaged in self-control for the purposes of data protection laws and questions being asked by 15 national parliaments, we may have a great deal of control, but it is inefficient control.
4884	We want less confusing control and more parliamentary control by the European Parliament, without hampering the work of Europol.
4885	At the same time, we support the establishment of a European police academy as suggested in Tampere as a step in the right direction.
4886	Thirdly: the extension to Parliament' s rights in this context.
4887	If the establishment of such an area, in which the Union can also intervene in the basic rights of the citizens, is only decided by diplomats and bureaucrats, while the elected representatives of Europe are reduced to following developments like a rabbit watching a snake, then this area will not gain the acceptance of the citizens.
4888	There is therefore an urgent need to grant Parliament codecision rights in this respect and, as we have already said, to strengthen the principle of democratic control.
4889	We want an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of Europe, not against them.
4890	Mr President, I have nothing further to say to the Council.
4891	The previous speaker has quoted me from the last committee meeting and said it all!
4892	Why does the Council find it so hard to work with us in creating an area of freedom, security and justice?
4893	I find this question more and more worrying.
4894	Allow me to try and elucidate it a little from my point of view.
4895	The establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice hovers at the interface between the constituent elements of national sovereignty.
4896	The police and judicial policy are quite clearly elements of sovereignty, in other words sensitive political areas in the Member States, and shifting the interface of these and communitising these policies, i.e. delegating powers from the national capitals, from Lisbon, Berlin or Paris, to Brussels represents a transfer of power.
4897	Of course it is very, very difficult to break away from the executive forms which have been handed down to us, even if we recognise that police cooperation is necessary; we can only fight international crime at European level.
4898	So we have to draw our conclusions and say that we need legal and organisational communitisation of the instruments available.
4899	As a result, the governments which need to do this and which recognise that need, also realise that, in implementing this, they are taking away their own powers.
4900	Then there is the European Parliament, which is also complicated.
4901	In the final analysis, however, we must find a way forward, because if we carry on as we have in the past, and with last year' s experience, then what will happen is that the security debate and the debate about citizens' rights will be marginalised in the national parliaments as a result of making it a half national, half European structure.
4902	It has not quite taken off in the European Parliament and the Council meets behind closed doors.
4903	If the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice is kept secret, then we shall not win the citizens over to it.
4904	In other words, the stability of democracy is at stake if we discuss it.
4905	This is why I frequently get so worked up, but not over the Council of Ministers.
4906	Generally, they too are elected Members of Parliament: Mr Gomes, Mr Costa, Commissioner Vitorino, in principle we are all in the same boat.
4907	However, I should like to make an appeal to the Council apparatchiks.
4908	The following principle applies: He who prepares decisions, in this case the Council apparatchiks, anticipates the decisions, which is why the Council apparatchiks should demonstrate more democratic spirit.
4909	I should just like to mention another aspect briefly because I do not have much time.
4910	Scoreboard sounds like skateboard in German.
4911	I say therefore that we need a timetable which stipulates what must be implemented, when and by whom.
4912	This Vitorino plan is what we need: clear, precise projects with a clear, defined timetable.
4913	Mr Vitorino, whom I would like to thank for his speech, can give us that, provided that he has the necessary financial and human resources.
4914	Let us give him those resources, then he can get on with his job and we all stand to gain.
4915	I warmly welcome the fact that the Portuguese Presidency is making justice and home affairs one of its top priorities or jewels in the crown.
4916	I was also encouraged by Commissioner Patten' s comments this morning about a rapid reaction fund for security crises.
4917	Perhaps that will end scandals like the failure of states to deploy in Kosovo the police they promised.
4918	I just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress.
4919	The first is asylum.
4920	It is essential to establish a single European system, but one based on fairness, full respect for the Geneva Convention and decent reception conditions, including an end to routine detention.
4921	Decisions on asylum should take months - not years.
4922	The second area is that of freedom: freedom to move and reside wherever one wishes in the Union; freedom of information; freedom to vote for all who have European citizenship - and that includes not just Member State citizens but third country nationals.
4923	Let our citizens know that our common policies in justice and home affairs are about freedom, not just about repression.
4924	The last area I want to mention is convergence of civil and criminal justice systems.
4925	Eurosceptics claim that this is a threat to sovereignty, the end of the nation-state, and so on.
4926	But the case of the suspect wanted for questioning in connection with the murders of three women in France, including British student, Isabel Peake, who was thrown off a train, shows why we need mutual recognition.
4927	Arrested and released in Madrid, he is now being extradited after arrest in Lisbon.
4928	Whatever the Eurosceptics say, it is in all our interests to get cooperation in such matters.
4929	Finally, as has already been said, it is essential, and I hope that the IGC will cover this, to move to codecision with the European Parliament in these areas, with democratic and judicial scrutiny.
4930	Mr President, all I can say about 1999 is this: how wonderful to feel the Portuguese summer after the Finnish winter.
4931	I hope that it works out.
4932	The Tampere Summit was certainly an important milestone in 1999 for Europe, and for the area of freedom, security and justice in particular.
4933	Numerous questions are still outstanding.
4934	Answers are still awaited.
4935	Since Tampere, there has been an imbalance between positive action and mere declarations of intent.
4936	Regulations on nationality and the integration of people from third countries are still outstanding.
4937	On the other hand, quite specific action has been called for on the subject of safety of life.
4938	The creation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights will be one of the important projects in the immediate future.
4939	However, it is difficult to predict what the content of this charter will be and how it will be implemented legally when you think of the people who are not currently citizens of the Union.
4940	The Europol agreement has now officially entered into force.
4941	In Tampere, the question of granting operational powers was discussed.
4942	We continue to demand a review of the agreement in order to incorporate better parliamentary and judicial control.
4943	The agreement also attracts criticism with regard to EURODAC.
4944	Parliament has amended the contractual text.
4945	Care must be taken to ensure that the Council complies with Parliament' s modus operandi.
4946	Unfortunately, no initiatives have yet materialised regarding other matters and we still await them.
4947	Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice has so far been an area with no clear regulation in important sectors.
4948	And yet we owe this to the citizens of Europe.
4949	Having listened to the justice and home affairs ministers, I am optimistic and I am assuming that we will succeed in the next six months.
4950	Mr President, Commissioner, the oral question tabled by Mrs Terrón i Cusí shows that this House is taking a firm stance. Indeed, six months after the election of this new Parliament, we should now be able to send a firm political message to the people of Europe.
4951	I believe that the Portuguese Presidency can contribute positively to this.
4952	We are all aware of the enormous expectations of our people with regard to freedom, security and justice, particularly social justice.
4953	Yet their lack of interest and involvement and sometimes even their distaste for all things political requires us to take specific action to tackle their problems.
4954	This is the sine qua non condition for reconciling the popular and political spheres.
4955	For Europe to become the symbol of peace and fraternity, we need a bold and generous policy to come to the aid of the most disadvantaged.
4956	A proper plan for fighting unemployment must be established for this is the scourge which is allowing the rise of racism, xenophobia, nationalism and extreme-right racist movements.
4957	We should remember that the most disadvantaged include immigrants and refugees.
4958	The virtually systematic conditions of detention and the criminalisation of asylum-seekers are no longer acceptable.
4959	All asylum-seekers must be entitled to a fair hearing and an appeal with suspensory effect.
4960	Last week, and somewhat by chance, I witnessed, at Roissy airport, a scene of rare violence in which two young women, admittedly illegal immigrants, were being returned to Conakry.
4961	They were treated like the worst criminals.
4962	They were stripped naked and dragged along the floor by their hair, surrounded by a horde of state security police.
4963	The Portuguese Presidency must put an end to this type of barbaric behaviour.
4964	Our role should be to accompany, reassure and assist those who are fleeing dictatorships.
4965	The Commission has proposed creating a European fund for refugees to which Parliament was favourably disposed.
4966	Instead of all this waffling about the budget granted to this fund, we could take the decision to set this up.
4967	The Presidency and the Council can realise what was incomprehensibly rejected in Tampere, even though this summit provided an important basis.
4968	Likewise, we cannot simply record the rise in xenophobic feelings in Europe and the increasingly common discrimination without taking wide-ranging action.
4969	The laws against racism must be harmonised.
4970	What direction do you intend to give to Article 13 of the EC Treaty?
4971	What do you intend to do to promote equal treatment in wages for men and women?
4972	How do you aim to eradicate homophobia, racism and sexism?
4973	We must take the best from each of our countries.
4974	When six European countries have granted the right to vote, the President of this House can venture to extend this right to vote, and eligibility to participate in the municipal and European elections, to all people from outside the Community who have lived in Europe for more than five years.
4975	The regularisation of illegal immigrants in certain countries, including your own, must act as an example to others. These illegal immigrants nowadays constitute a plethora of vulnerable people at the mercy of slum landlords, an oppressed workforce subject to economic exploitation, rendering them modern-day slaves.
4976	In more general terms, this Presidency must start to change the behaviour and interaction of our people with minority groups and immigrants.
4977	Immigration is too often a synonym for insecurity and violence and purely repressive responses.
4978	How do you intend to make our people understand that, today like always, immigration is a source of social and cultural wealth with a role which is, and will remain, essential in the context of population?
4979	What action do you intend to take to enhance the place of immigrants in our society and to guarantee proper protection for asylum-seekers?
4980	Mr President, there is a great lack of transparency in the area of security, freedom and justice.
4981	The European Union is an economic powerhouse but we are not in a position to pontificate when it comes to our treatment of refugees.
4982	The level of racism in our society is terrifying.
4983	Ireland, for generations, sent her sons and daughters to places of safety throughout the world, but now when the Celtic tiger is providing wealth and prosperity beyond our expectations, we are showing a very ugly side to our character.
4984	Racism in Ireland is endemic.
4985	It has been a relative shock to our political leaders to find we must now take a share of the refugees that have been coming into the European Union for a long time.
4986	We are coming from behind in dealing with the issue and the government is doing its utmost to catch up.
4987	There is a willingness but fear pervades, and to assuage this fear we must find political and religious leadership not only in Ireland but throughout the European Union.
4988	Mr President, we take note that the excuse-making, reticent Presidency, which, in recent months, has prevented us from holding a debate such as the one we have been able to hold today, has come to an end.
4989	I totally agree with Mr von Boetticher and Mr Schulz' s remarks, and truly believe that the European Parliament and the Court of Justice need to be more involved in the area of freedom, security and justice, without having to derogate from their own powers.
4990	Nevertheless, to avoid the customary circus, which every six months has us indiscriminately attacking the Presidency of the Council, maybe Parliament should find the courage to undertake incisive political action so that the next Intergovernmental Conference will decide to increase codecision with immediate effect and not wait for another five years.
4991	The two identical-sounding questions which are under discussion are, of course, underpinned by a mantra of the kind which, in recent years, has increasingly transformed politics into a type of ideology - fine-sounding, but pernicious.
4992	And our current EU mantra is AFSJ: Area for Freedom, Security and Justice.
4993	Behind this lies another ambition on the part of the Commission and of the Council and of the overwhelming majority of this House, namely to introduce such an area.
4994	And who is not in favour of security, freedom and justice?
4995	The problem is just that this is not something the EU can introduce by means of legislative decrees and other supranational resolutions.
4996	Freedom, security and justice are the root system of any society, reflecting its history, corporate experience and political development.
4997	A system of this kind is not something the EU can introduce without society' s sustaining damage as a result.
4998	But it is precisely here that we find the real rationale behind the mantra concerning security, freedom and justice.
4999	The agenda is not designed to secure justice for the citizen.
5000	That is already secured by means of the various national legal systems.
5001	The agenda is designed to transfer vital parts of society' s criminal law, policy on crime and administration of justice to the EU' s control.
5002	It is concerned with increased integration which, as part of a duplicitous package, involves increased repression and control.
5003	You just have to think of all the resolutions concerning Fort Europa, Schengen, Eurodac etc. Any democrat can spot two key problems.
5004	First of all, the initiatives which have been planned are completely unrealistic.
5005	How is it envisaged that the EU' s institutions, which are already stretched well beyond their capacity, can bring the ambitious projects concerned to fruition?
5006	Think of last year' s deadly criticism of the Commission' s lack of propriety, ethics and accountability.
5007	It also, of course, finds indirect expression in the question.
5008	But, secondly, the projects will put a strain on, indeed will be injurious to, the national democracies.
5009	As long as the EU revolved around the internal market, only the body was being attacked.
5010	Now, it is the soul.
5011	Mr President, today the people of Northern Ireland see a strange irony.
5012	We had Commissioner Patten speaking in this House in defence of freedom, security and justice and yet his report before the British House of Commons this afternoon, which has been accepted, will do away with the Royal Ulster Constabulary and its reserves and put the people of Northern Ireland of both religious sections into the hands of the terrorists.
5013	The IRA terrorists have not given up any of their weapons, nor have the loyalist terrorists, yet the police are being forced into a position where they will not have the power to resist the terrorist community.
5014	Let me just look at the figures from the day that the agreement was signed.
5015	In 1998, we had 55 murders.
5016	In 1999, we had 7 murders and that does not include the Omagh bomb where 29 were killed and 300 injured.
5017	Between 1998 and 1999, loyalists assaulted and shot 123 people, while republicans assaulted and shot 93 people.
5018	Charges brought against loyalists in 1999 totalled 193, while those against republicans totalled 97.
5019	Since January 2000, there have been six shootings by loyalists and two by republicans, loyalists have been involved in six serious assaults, one leading to another murder, while republicans have engaged in five serious assaults.
5020	Mr President, that situation cannot continue and needs remedying.
5021	Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam has set an important objective for the Union.
5022	This is a task which all MEPs, the Council and the Commission must take on during this legislature: the creation, as has been said already, of an area of freedom, security and justice.
5023	The Tampere Council, the motor and architect of this objective, has proposed certain goals, but five years, the time scale laid down for the implementation of Chapter IV of the Treaty, is too long to wait for the urgent solution which some problems require.
5024	My first point is that Parliament must not be excluded from the important decisions to be taken in this area and that its participation in the decision-making process must be guaranteed, especially with regard to this project which affects the citizens, as the Commissioner has explained very well.
5025	My second point is that we must make rapid progress in the adoption of a common asylum system, adopting common procedural rules and, above all, putting an end to the current confusion between migration for political reasons and migration for economic reasons.
5026	The recent laws on aliens adopted in my country, Spain, and in Belgium, are a reminder that there is an urgent need for the communitisation of immigration policy.
5027	My third and final point relates to the external activities of the Union in the field of immigration and asylum.
5028	We must not and cannot give the impression that the Union exclusively wishes to defend itself from an avalanche of refugees and economic migrants.
5029	We must opt for a policy of cooperating in the development of our neighbouring countries in the East and the Mediterranean area, but we must do so with rigour, with economic means and in close collaboration with public institutions, which must cooperate in the protection of those citizens whose most basic rights are violated or who wish to emigrate in order to meet their most essential needs.
5030	Finally, in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the citizens of Europe need to have a vision of citizenship.
5031	The Euro, employment, even security, are not enough.
5032	They need a 'European soul' , as a distinguished Spanish professor once said.
5033	Mr President, unlike some of the previous speakers, I want to go back to the words of our Portuguese ministers and Mr Vitorino.
5034	This trio's words were like music to our ears as Mr Ceyhun has said.
5035	As with all music it needs to be a fine tune and properly orchestrated.
5036	Many of us of here are very optimistic about the next six months.
5037	The tune that will be played will be one that the people of Europe will be listening to and they will want to hear the right sort of tune.
5038	As described this afternoon it will go a long way towards drowning out some of the unpleasant tunes we heard during the European election and over the last few months.
5039	The Amsterdam Treaty and the Tampere Council built on this project for an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
5040	One area though is extremely important, and this House must be involved in it: namely scrutiny.
5041	There is so much legislation - and I very much welcome the Portuguese programme that was outlined to us last week - but we need to be absolutely sure that it is scrutinised, that the people in this Parliament and the members of the national parliaments and the citizens of Europe are aware of everything involved in it.
5042	And we must make certain that the details are applicable, appropriate and relevant to the different countries.
5043	I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon, one or two of which were referred to earlier on.
5044	I welcome the movement towards the recognition of judicial systems in the various countries and the cooperation on crime.
5045	That is an area that European citizens will respond to and will be happy about.
5046	But the Commission and Council must know that there are many people in this House who have reservations about the Eurodac system, for example.
5047	We accept the predominant role of the Council in this, but there are reservations and I am sure that the Council will listen to the words coming from the elected parliamentarians here when they go through it in more detail.
5048	Mr Schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of 'scoreboard' .
5049	Anyone who is English or British or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is.
5050	A scoreboard tells people the score; it has to be up-to-date and it has to be clear and visible.
5051	I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will make certain that is so.
5052	At the end of six months I hope that the music is still playing and that the European people are still listening.
5053	Mr President, I would like to welcome the President-in-Office and his colleague from the Justice Ministry, Mr Costa, and to thank them for the welcome they gave my committee in Lisbon last week and the constructive meetings we enjoyed.
5054	Amsterdam and Tampere have given us much work to do together, as the excellent draft resolution by Mrs Terrón today shows.
5055	I would like to make three brief points.
5056	The first is that we need a mature dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament.
5057	It is barely six months since Amsterdam imposed a duty on our two organisations to work together; we have been sizing each other up, we have had a few minor spats, but we need to work effectively together.
5058	Let us stop the shadow-boxing.
5059	Let us drop the elaborate charades and let us respect the duties that the Treaties impose on us and the timescales allowed for full democratic debate.
5060	Involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process.
5061	Let us not pretend that national parliaments are able to exercise effective democratic control of government activities in this area.
5062	My second point is that we need a properly resourced Commission.
5063	We have established a new Directorate-General, yet it has only 70 people all told.
5064	There is an agreement to double this number, but I understand that, so far, not a single new person has arrived.
5065	We are setting the Commission a massive task, not least in the drawing up of the scoreboard.
5066	The Council and Parliament must work together to provide the resources that the Commission needs.
5067	Finally, on the content of the debate, I welcome the fact that the presidency has put the area of freedom, security and justice at the top of its agenda.
5068	All good things come in threes, especially in our policy area.
5069	Two hundred years ago it was liberty, equality and fraternity, and things went along very well until the governments of the left raised equality above the others.
5070	Now it is freedom, security and justice, and I hope that the current governments of the left will heed the words of Commissioner Vitorino and resist the temptation to elevate security, important as it is, above the equally important needs of freedom and justice.
5071	Although the main achievements in the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice should be mentioned, we must remember that there is still room for progress.
5072	The role of the Court of Justice is still too limited and communitisation is incomplete.
5073	The unilateral decision by Belgium to re-establish border controls is a clear illustration of this.
5074	The decision to establish a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be welcomed but it is difficult to predict whether its content and legal scope will be restrictive or symbolic, including all people, whatever their nationality, or excluding some.
5075	The total lack of progress in European citizenship and the political rights of all European residents is to be regretted.
5076	Although action plans established by the high-level working group aim to limit migratory flows in the future, these plans do nothing to improve human rights, civil liberties and the economic situation in the countries concerned.
5077	We know that readmission clauses are included in the cooperation and association agreements. Yet these represent a serious threat to the principle of 'non-refoulement' [no turning back].
5078	Furthermore, it should be noted that these provisions were adopted within the Council by a procedure without debate and without consulting Parliament.
5079	However, the main concern remains ...
5080	(The President cut the speaker off)
5081	Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the representatives of the Council as well as the Commissioner.
5082	I thank them for their statements to the House.
5083	Rather than go back over the areas that have already been covered I would like to deal with one specific topic: the question of drugs and how we tackle the pervasiveness of the drug culture in our societies.
5084	I look to the Portuguese Presidency in particular to build on some of the tremendous work which was done by the Finnish Presidency in bringing forward coordinated plans and action between the Member States.
5085	We already have, on the international side, plans in place to combat drug trafficking, money laundering and so on.
5086	But to bring it down to a more human level: to give assistance to those people who are trying to come off drugs, and give them proper controls and proper mechanisms for rehabilitation; secondly, to coordinate amongst the police forces and the judiciary with regard to common penalties and common laws; thirdly, to undertake an information and awareness campaign for young people; and once and for all to put an end to these very dangerous words of "normalisation" and "harm reduction" and show that any weakening of our resolve in making sure that drugs are not legalised must be for the good of all our people.
5087	Mr President, I would like to use the few seconds of speaking time to which I am entitled to point out, or remind, the representative of the Commission that, in Belgium, the government is currently pursuing a policy under which thousands and possibly tens of thousands of illegal aliens are being legalised and are to receive permanent right of residence, right to be reunited with their families, etc.
5088	This is a Belgian government measure which flies in the face of the Schengen Treaty.
5089	I lodged a written complaint on the same subject to Commissioner Vitorino on 23 December.
5090	I would ask him to take this complaint into consideration and inform me, within the foreseeable future, of the steps the Commission will take to penalise this violation of the Schengen Treaty by the Belgian State, in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty.
5091	Mr President, esteemed gentlemen from Portugal, especially the Council representatives, you face great expectations on our part.
5092	I should like to give you an example of one way in which you can meet these expectations relatively quickly in at least one small segment.
5093	I refer to Eurodac.
5094	You will remember that we decided with great expectations here in the European Parliament in December that Eurodac would become a reality as a regulation and as a system, as a Community instrument which we urgently need in order to prevent multiple asylum applications, in order to have an instrument to fight illegality and, above all, in order to set out clearly which Member State was responsible for implementing the asylum procedure.
5095	We voted clearly in favour of the introduction of this instrument, together with an implementation committee, which would be attached to the Commission in just the same way that a corresponding database would be.
5096	We were of the opinion that EURODAC was becoming a reality.
5097	Even in Tampere, we were of the opinion that Eurodac was becoming a reality.
5098	However, the Council then took another direction at the very next summit in December and took a huge step backwards by deciding what we had absolutely rejected, i.e. that the Council should continue to be responsible for implementation, that the regulatory committee would be attached to the Council and that, where possible, Gibraltar would still be used to exert pressure.
5099	This is a perfect example of the sort of work we do not want to see.
5100	My urgent request on behalf of the Group is that you do everything to ensure that Eurodac is implemented immediately as an instrument to fight asylum abuse and illegality and as an instrument to speed up asylum procedures.
5101	If you tell us today how you wish to proceed, you will be doing us a great service.
5102	Mr President, Ministers, Commissioner, the 1999 harvest of decisions was indeed rich, so much so that it became difficult to gather, i.e. to put those decisions into practice.
5103	I refer in particular to the Council and to the inertia of the Member States in implementing the decisions they had jointly made.
5104	However, the past year was positively marked by some momentous decisions, such as the decision to begin implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam, the decision to incorporate the Schengen Agreement into the Community pillar, and the decision of the Cologne Council to create a Charter of Fundamental Rights and the decision of the Extraordinary European Council in Tampere to bind the Member States to common directions, priorities and goals with a view to creating a common area of freedom, security and justice.
5105	Without wishing to ignore the progress which has been made, we, the European Parliament, would like to draw your attention to the unwillingness on the part of the Council to implement these decisions in many areas, as well as its lack of common vision and, in particular, the lack of transparency and cooperation with the European Parliament.
5106	From what I have said, it must be obvious to you that the European Parliament is not prepared to simply play the role of observer.
5107	Neither will it stop raising vital issues. For example, how much progress are you willing to make and what measures, legislative or otherwise, will you be taking to combat the scourge of trafficking in human beings, child pornography on the Internet, drugs, and organised crime?
5108	Do you intend to press for a common policy for asylum and immigration?
5109	How do you intend to go about integrating immigrants into the Community, reuniting them with their families and recognising their rights and duties on an equal footing with those of the citizens of Europe?
5110	In light of this new international demographic class portrayed by experts at the UN, is it not about time you abandoned your traditional, conservative views on refugees and immigrants?
5111	I have great expectations for the Portuguese Presidency.
5112	Mr President, I welcome much, indeed most, of what has been said in this debate.
5113	But I want to add a word of caution.
5114	We risk having not too few charters of rights in this Community, but too many: national, European Union and European Convention; not too few tribunals having the final say about our rights but possibly too many - there is the Court across the river there, there is the Court in Luxembourg.
5115	There are also courts in Karlsruhe, London, Lisbon, Dublin and Edinburgh.
5116	We must make sure that what we do makes clear sense.
5117	We must not generate a confusion and conflict of jurisdictions about rights, for that would be the enemy of freedom, justice and security.
5118	We need, in short, to have and to sustain the highest possible common standards and to find ways of securing these.
5119	But we must look always to subsidiarity.
5120	Like everybody in this House, I want freedom, justice and security.
5121	I do not want to see these degenerate into over-centralisation, chaos and confusion.
5122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very quickly like to make one point.
5123	Various Members raised questions about the Portuguese Presidency.
5124	The President of Parliament has made us aware of the very limited time at our disposal, and my colleague, the Minister for Justice, and I therefore propose to reply objectively to all the questions put here at the parliamentary committee meeting which we shall be attending next week.
5125	(Sustained applause)
5126	Thank you, Minister.
5127	The debate is closed.
5128	Mr President, I am grateful for the Council' s oral, and also written, reply.
5129	Their efficiency has been truly remarkable.
5130	I will save a few seconds because I wanted to propose to the Council that we continue the debate at the next meeting of the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs. Then we will have the opportunity to comment on these replies and to express our concerns to the Commission as well.
5131	Personally, I am pleased with some of the replies, for example, in relation to issues as sensitive as Schengen and the Europol Convention, which we hope will be reviewed, and I am pleased with the words of the Minister for Justice with regard to trying to bring them under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities.
5132	I also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control.
5133	Representatives of the Council, within the next month we are going to table a motion for a resolution in this Parliament.
5134	I am sure that, with the willingness that you have shown today, the first thing you will do, in this new climate of understanding between us, will be to take account of the motion for a resolution which we will submit to you.
5135	Question Time (Council)
5136	The next item is Question Time (B5-0003/2000).
5137	We will examine questions to the Council.
5138	Question No 1 by (H-0780/99):
5139	Subject: Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey's persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu, while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes.
5140	Turkey's nuclear plans B which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region B prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
5141	What steps will the Council take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget?
5142	Mr President, the Council wishes to point out that Turkey is a signatory to the Convention on Nuclear Safety, the objectives of which should allay the fears expressed by Mr Souladakis.
5143	The aim of this convention, which came into force on 24 October 1996, is precisely to achieve and maintain a high standard of nuclear safety at world level by means of national measures and through international cooperation. It further aims to ensure that nuclear installations are equipped with continuing protection against potential radiological risks, so as to protect individuals, society at large and the environment against the harmful effects of the ionising radiation that can be emitted by such installations.
5144	The convention, as you will be aware, also covers the prevention of accidents which have radiological effects and the limitation of such effects when incidents of this kind occur.
5145	I would also like to remind Members that, as a candidate for membership of the European Union, Turkey will - and this is a pre-accession condition, which is an important point - sooner or later, as part of its own pre-accession strategy, have to adopt a set of policies geared towards adopting the entire acquis communautaire in good time, and including therefore all provisions already in force on nuclear safety.
5146	Thank you for your answer.
5147	However, I would just like to add the following. Turkey is only looking to increase its energy potential by 2% with this unit.
5148	Nevertheless, rumour has it that it plans to buy Candu reactors of the type acquired by Pakistan and India which were used for nuclear weapons.
5149	In this respect, the issue requires closer examination, because the sensitive situation in the Caucasus region could heighten people' s suspicions.
5150	My second point concerns the safety of these plants. In areas of high seismic risk, it is not enough just to have secure, earthquake-proof buildings.
5151	Speaking as an engineer, I can tell you that we carry out tests to investigate the effects of certain risk factors in extreme circumstances.
5152	However, we cannot carry out tests on nuclear plants which are in operation; it is just not possible.
5153	With this in mind, it goes without saying that nuclear plants a priori should not be built in areas prone to earthquakes.
5154	In this respect, and because Turkey is situated on the periphery of the European Union, we should be helping it to become a more secure, peaceful and cooperative country.
5155	That is our role and this is the point of my question.
5156	I recognise the relevance of the arguments that Mr Souladakis has put forward.
5157	This is, of course, a highly sensitive issue.
5158	Furthermore, it will be evident that this is a matter that does not only affect Turkey, in view of that country' s proximity to the existing territory of the European Union. It also affects other states neighbouring the EU with which we maintain relations.
5159	We understand your concerns and will certainly take account of them, particularly during the discussions that we will be having with Turkey to define that country' s own pre-accession strategy agenda.
5160	This question will naturally be one of our key concerns, and the European Commission will not fail to take this into account.
5161	Thank you, Mr President and thank you President-in-Office of the Council.
5162	I am sure the President-in-Office of the Council is a very nice man and is very kind to his wife and his children and his dog.
5163	However, forgive me if I am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me.
5164	I do not believe that the statements made within the Council and the votes are available to the public immediately.
5165	Will you please therefore undertake, before the next plenary in February, to write and tell me where I can find this information on behalf of the public, immediately the Council has passed legislation, rather than waiting for it to come out weeks later on a press release list.
5166	Will you write to me before the next plenary with that information?
5167	Mr Newton Dunn, I would first like to say that I do not appreciate the kind of personal comments with which you started your second question, and I would be grateful if you could refrain from making such comments in future.
5168	With regard to what you were saying, it makes me think that the criticism levelled at the Council, apart from being formulated in a very specific way of which we also take note, does not actually refer to the opacity, shall we say, of the legislative process, but rather almost to an excess of transparency.
5169	However, I would like to say, Mr Newton Dunn, that the results of this kind of process for transparency are quite obvious to us and we consider them to be unquestionable.
5170	We have no problem, Mr Newton Dunn, in repeating this information to you in writing, but we will not be able to go any further than what has been said here, because that meets the requirements of the Treaty exactly.
5171	We therefore consider that the General Secretariat of the Council is at present making available to the public all essential information regarding the Council' s functions as a legislative body.
5172	I do not consider that the Council tried to answer my question.
5173	I did not ask what the Council thought of the proposal which the Commission has still not tabled.
5174	Instead, my question concerns the interpretation in principle of Article 255 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
5175	Does this permit legislation also to be passed concerning national laws on transparency and not only in connection with the three institutions of the European Union referred to there?
5176	I should like to have an answer to that question.
5177	Does the Council consider that, on the basis of Article 255 of the Treaty, national legislation on transparency can be regulated, that is to say legislation not relating to the EU' s institutions?
5178	Mr Sjöstedt, the answer that I gave was the only answer possible.
5179	Nevertheless, I would like to say that any interpretation of Article 255 of the Treaty must also be linked to the principle of subsidiarity.
5180	At the moment, there are no concrete proposals which would allow us to make adjustments under this Article, and unless there is such a proposal, we cannot move forward on this matter.
5181	In any event, Article 255 does not, at first sight, allow work to be done on any basis that could affect the principle of subsidiarity.
5182	I am, up to a point, concerned about how the Council will fight for the principles contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam and whose purpose is to ensure that citizens have a better opportunity to participate in the decision-making process.
5183	How is this to be done when, at the same time, the Commission' s proposal - which has been leaked, so the general public is aware of it - says that employees' freedom of thought comes before transparency and that it is not possible to have access to working documents, reports, drafts etc?
5184	Does not the Council' s representative think that this makes it difficult to participate in the democratic decision-making process?
5185	Mrs Frahm, the question that you raised is extremely important and we discussed it at great length during the last Intergovernmental Conference.
5186	I would like to say that transparency does not only apply from the Community institutions "outwards" , it also applies between the institutions.
5187	By this I mean that there are aspects of the form and procedure of the Community institutions' workings which are not accessible to the other institutions, and not only as regards the Commission' s relationship with Parliament, but also as regards the Commission' s relationship with the Council.
5188	As a matter of fact, at the last conference, this issue was raised and discussed on several occasions.
5189	The European Parliament will have the opportunity to take part in the preparatory group for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
5190	The matter is still open.
5191	Genuine transparency of the institutions' workings and the way they are presented throughout Europe is an extremely important issue and one which, in my opinion, needs to be studied again, particularly in the context of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference. We have no doubts about this and we think that the Members taking part in this preparatory group will have an opportunity to raise this issue again.
5192	I believe that the Commission' s proposal should make provision for greater transparency in terms of the way the various institutions function, but I think that there is always room for improvement in this matter.
5193	For our part, we are prepared to study any proposals made in this area.
5194	It is a very important question indeed which Jonas Sjöstedt and others have asked.
5195	We have a principle of transparency in Sweden which strengthens democracy and ensures that there is a worthwhile dialogue between citizens, decision makers and authorities.
5196	We are very anxious indeed that the EU, too, should move in this direction, and this is also stated in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
5197	One or two years ago, Parliament adopted a report by Mrs Lööw which is extremely important in this context.
5198	The report warned that the forthcoming process would lead to restrictions upon the transparency of the Member States.
5199	We can now see that there is perhaps some reason for this warning from Parliament.
5200	I want to ask the Council if it understands this warning, in view of what we have now seen in the working documents from the Commission.
5201	I listened very carefully to what Mr Seixas da Costa had to say on transparency and the Intergovernmental Conference.
5202	My concern is, if I have understood Mr Seixas da Costa correctly on the interesting points he made as regards transparency and the IGC, whether the Portuguese Presidency will take on the commitment to tackle the issue of widening the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
5203	After all, examining the issue of transparency in the ways the institutions operate should never be hidden away under any old heading or confined to some lobby or other - though I know full well the importance of these lobbies.
5204	It should have its own heading in the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference, which would mean widening the agenda.
5205	Mr Dimitrakopoulos, transparency is naturally an issue of concern to the institutions.
5206	This Intergovernmental Conference will, at the outset, concentrate on improving the way the institutions operate, particularly taking account of the desire we all share for them specifically to become more democratic, more transparent and more efficient.
5207	All of this must nevertheless be done whilst respecting a broad framework - that of the overall acceptability of any solutions we may devise to achieve these three aims.
5208	It is obvious that transparency will be a permanent fixture on the European agenda and it will, of course, feature on the agenda of this Intergovernmental Conference.
5209	I can assure you that this is an issue which the Portuguese Presidency will keep before the Member States and the representatives of the preparatory group for the conference.
5210	It must therefore be able to count on the support of the Members of the European Parliament, who will surely rally behind this proposal.
5211	We will then see, at ministerial level, how we can follow this up.
5212	It should nevertheless be noted that we have just concluded the Treaty of Amsterdam, which was approved last May, and that there is a raft of implementing measures on transparency which are still in progress. The question is whether it is premature or not to start a new initiative on the subject of transparency.
5213	My feeling is that, in spite of everything, this issue will always have to be on the agenda, because the public is clearly concerned about it, and because it is linked with the need to make the European institutions accountable to the public.
5214	As far as we are concerned, they will be.
5215	We shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter.
5216	Question No 5 by (H-0785/99):
5217	Subject: Proposal for a regulation laying down the total admissible catches for specific fish populations for the year 2000, and the case of anchovies in particular The latest reports from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea indicate that the current level of anchovy stocks in ICES zone VIII is critical.
5218	Have the Council of Fisheries Ministers and the Commission assessed the impact of transferring the Portuguese quota for ICES zones XI and X and CECAF zone 34.1.1 to France (5000 metric tonnes per year overfishing) on the ICES zone VIII anchovy stocks and their responsibility for the current situation of the anchovy stocks and the possible social and economic impact on this fisheries sector in the future?
5219	Does the Council believe that it is permissible to consolidate future overfishing which violates the originally established TAC of 33 000 metric tonnes per year, given the current evidence for the critical state of anchovy stocks?
5220	What measures does the Council intend to adopt, and when, with a view to taking proper account of the critical state of anchovy stocks, the aforesaid quota transfer and the principle of relative stability?
5221	Mr President, the Portuguese Presidency is extremely anxious to give a comprehensive answer to this question, particularly because it broaches an issue which concerns Portugal in a positive way, and I shall explain how.
5222	The Council is aware of the critical level of anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay to which Mr Ortuondo Larrea refers.
5223	Nevertheless, at the last Fisheries Council of 1999, held on 16 and 17 December, the Member States involved in this area of fishing, namely France, Spain and Portugal, considered that applying the precautionary principle which sets a TAC reduced from 5 000 tonnes to 2 000 tonnes, as the Commission proposed, was excessively cautious.
5224	A compromise solution was therefore reached in order to achieve a balance between the need to reduce the biological risks, that is the species of fish being affected, and the socio-economic problems caused by fishing limits. This was achieved by fixing the TAC at an intermediate level of 16 000 tonnes instead of the 33 000 set in 1999.
5225	It was also stipulated that this would be revised in the light of new scientific information on preserving species, of which we hope to see examples in the first six months of this year.
5226	As for the Southern stocks of anchovy in ICES zone IX, the TAC was fixed at 10 000 tonnes for the whole of 2000 as opposed to 13 000 tonnes in 1999.
5227	Fishing quota transfers between Portugal and France were reduced proportionally from 5 008 tonnes in 1999 to 3 000 tonnes in 2000, for fishing in French waters.
5228	I would like to state that this transfer will not increase the pressure of fishing on anchovy stocks overall, over the whole Community fishing area.
5229	In accordance with the principle of relative stability, 90% of stocks of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay are allocated to Spain and only 10% to France.
5230	Without this transfer from Portuguese waters, the level of the Bay of Biscay TAC would have to be multiplied by ten in order to grant adequate catches to France.
5231	That is why I think that this is quite positive from Portugal' s point of view.
5232	This situation would obviously be even more damaging to the level of stocks than the risk referred to by Mr Ortuondo Larrea, which we also understand.
5233	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must say that your comments have not satisfied me at all.
5234	I understand that Portugal is affected by this.
5235	However, it seems to go against all reason and intelligence that 80% of the anchovies, which, until 1995, were being fished in the Portuguese fishing grounds, through an agreement between that Member State - Portugal - and France, should now be fished in the Bay of Biscay and that the Council of Ministers wishes to maintain that this has no effect on the anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay or the Cantabrian Sea.
5236	It has been shown, as we have been claiming since 1995, that this move is appalling, and, if Portugal and France wish to reach an agreement, that is fine by us, but these anchovies should be fished in Portuguese fishing grounds and not in the Bay of Biscay.
5237	Today, scientific studies show that the anchovy population in the Bay of Biscay is in danger of extinction, and now there will be measures to restrict the amount of anchovy which can be fished in that Bay.
5238	I do not know if you are aware, representatives of the Council of Ministers, of your responsibility over these last few years, and in 2000 as well, for the plight of the families who live on anchovy fishing in the north of the Iberian Peninsular.
5239	I would like to say, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, that in its judgement of 5 October 1999, the European Court of Justice ruled that this transfer, which was approved, was in accordance with the principles laid down in Council Regulation 37/60/92 and, specifically, with its Article 9(1), which stipulates that Member States may exchange all or part of the fishing rights that they have been allocated.
5240	The Court also stated that the principle of relative stability had not been violated since the anchovy quota allocated to Spain in zone VIII had been maintained at 90% and France' s at 10%.
5241	Apart from this, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, the Court is of the opinion that the transfer effected between Portugal and France does not violate the principle of exploiting living sea and freshwater resources in a rational and responsible way, on the grounds that the fishing pressure in zones VIII and IX neither increases nor adversely affects the overall quota of these resources allocated to Spain.
5242	Accordingly, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, the Council reiterates its opinion that without this transfer, greater account would be taken of France' s possibilities for anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay.
5243	The Council therefore reiterates its opinion that fishing pressure would be greater and more damaging to population numbers than the solution which was eventually chosen.
5244	In concrete terms, 3 000 tonnes represent 57.5% of Portugal' s fishing opportunities in 2000 against 5 008 tonnes or 73.9% in 1999.
5245	These numbers represent, in our opinion and in the opinion of the Council, a real improvement in terms of conservation in comparison with the level of 80% laid down in Council Regulation 685/95.
5246	Question No 6 by (H-0788/99):
5247	Subject: Measures to combat the continuing ethnic cleansing of Serbs and Romanies in Kosovo On 2 December 1999, NATO's Defence Ministers made a strong appeal for an end to the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo's minority communities.
5248	In its resolution referring to specific atrocities committed against Serbs and Romanies, Parliament also vigorously condemns the continuing violence against the Serb population and calls on the leaders of the Kosovo Albanians to fully respect UN Resolution 1244.
5249	The resolution also stresses that previous persecution of the Albanians cannot constitute a pretext for killings, abductions, detentions, intimidation, arson, looting, destruction of property and the taking-over of houses etc.
5250	In the light of the above, will the Council reconsider the funding for the reconstruction of Kosovo, as requested by Parliament?
5251	What other practical measures will it take to put a stop to ethnic cleansing?
5252	Mr Alavanos, I would like to say that I have the greatest sympathy for the concern underlying the issue you have raised.
5253	We genuinely share your concerns about the threatening situation which exists in Kosovo for ethnic minorities, for both the Serb and Romany populations, and the incidents of discrimination, harassment and intimidation which continue to take place in that region.
5254	The Council has always stressed the need to seek prosecution of all those who have perpetrated such acts and of those who continue to perpetrate such acts.
5255	The Council once again reiterated the need, in its December conclusions, to fully implement Security Council resolution 12/99 and has consistently supported Bernard Kouchner' s efforts to implement measures to guarantee effective protection of minorities in the region and, in particular, to guarantee that measures facilitating the preservation of the region' s multi-ethnic make-up are effectively implemented.
5256	In our contacts with senior political figures amongst the Kosovo Albanians, we have stressed - and the Portuguese Prime Minister did this very recently - that persecution of the Serb population, the Romany population and other ethnic groups is totally unacceptable.
5257	It will not be tolerated, and must stop immediately.
5258	It has been communicated explicitly and repeatedly to Kosovar leaders that international support will depend to a large extent on the way non-Albanian minorities are treated.
5259	I think that this is an extremely important point: this sense of conditionality, which underlies the European Union' s position, is being maintained by the Council and will continue to be maintained.
5260	We have fully supported the efforts of the United Nations mission and the international security forces in Kosovo to prevent further outbreaks of violence against minorities and to protect the populations under threat.
5261	KFOR and the UNMIC police consider one of their two main tasks to be preventing any form of maltreatment on the grounds of a person' s ethnic origin.
5262	The Council therefore expressed its satisfaction, in its December conclusions, at the substantial contributions announced by the European Commission, which will indirectly assist in returning the situation to normal, together with similar contributions made by Member States.
5263	Nevertheless, Mr Alavanos, the Council is also aware that the total amount of resources made available to the appropriate international organisations in Kosovo does not match the desired amount, in terms of what the various Member States have been able to raise, and this has limited the real ability of these organisations to act on the ground.
5264	We shall nevertheless continue to devote all our attention to this problem because the entire credibility of the authorities and of the organisations representing Albanians in the region also depends on the ability of these organisations to prove themselves capable of implementing measures which will guarantee the region' s multi-ethnic nature.
5265	I would like to thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
5266	I believe - as I think we all do - that Portugal, its former president, Mr Soares, and its government, maintained a cautious and middle-of-the-road stance during the bombings in the Balkans.
5267	Today' s political statement on this issue was very positive indeed, and one which I welcome.
5268	However, there is some concern over the lack of progress made despite the good and honest intentions expressed by the European Union.
5269	Unfortunately, we have recently witnessed the eradication of Serb, Romany, Turkish, and Croatian minorities in Kosovo and we are now wondering what will happen next.
5270	The United Nation' s, and Mr Kouchner' s, mission in Kosovo ended in failure.
5271	This failure is illustrated by the fact that after an entire war that was waged to put an end to ethnic cleansing, we now have ethnic cleansing from the opposite side.
5272	And so I would like to repeat my question as to whether the Council intends to take more specific action to debate these issues with Mr Kouchner, who has a major responsibility for the situation in Kosovo today.
5273	Mr Alavanos, I cannot agree with what you just said in your last sentence on Mr Kouchner' s responsibilities, and I would like to make two very important points here. The structure being implemented in Kosovo is under the auspices of the United Nations.
5274	It is a structure to which the European Union has given as much support as it can and to which the countries of the European Union have contributed in various ways.
5275	There is one thing, however, that we cannot deny, and that is that Mr Kouchner' s efforts to return Kosovo' s internal situation to normal have been extremely positive.
5276	This is undeniable, even if you - or indeed we - consider that some of the results of these efforts, for reasons beyond Mr Kouchner' s control, have not been as effective as we would all have liked them to be.
5277	I have one last point to make, which is about the European Union' s responsibility and, specifically, in this case, about possible action by the Council in this matter, and the responsibility of the international community, which has overall responsibility for the situation in Kosovo.
5278	Therefore, the responsibility of the European Union has to be seen in a certain context.
5279	It is the international community, and specifically the United Nations, which should be held responsible for implementing Resolution 12/99 and, in particular, for the thinking behind this resolution and for the compatibility of this resolution with reality.
5280	These are questions which we should all be asking, but the forum for putting these questions is the United Nations.
5281	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I heartily welcome the fact that you have said that you wish to improve structures, in the aim of improving the credibility of the authorities.
5282	I think that we need to consider how we can best present this to the general public.
5283	The question which I therefore ask myself is this: has in fact a start been made on how we can promote the media in this area, how we can train journalists and how we can improve information to the public on peaceful coexistence?
5284	We have endeavoured to provide material help.
5285	We have tried to defend peace by taking military action.
5286	What is the situation now as regards efforts to include psychological criteria in this crisis area and provide the best possible support here?
5287	Mr Rübig, as I said, I understand your concerns very well.
5288	I think that, at the moment, particularly in the last few months, there have been some positive developments in terms of the resources that will be available to Mr Kouchner, in order for him to be able to do his job efficiently.
5289	I heard Mr Kouchner speak at the Council of Europe ministerial meeting on this issue, and I think that many of the concerns he expressed then about the lack of resources needed to overcome some of the problems have now been addressed. In other words, he has been given these resources.
5290	Firstly, an increase in police numbers would be an important factor in guaranteeing the safety of the civilian population and, in particular, in protecting certain sections of the civilian population. Secondly, an increase in appropriations would allow some officials who have important roles in the administrative and operational process in Kosovo to be kept on.
5291	The issue which we should all raise, and I did so myself, in a diplomatic way, a while ago, concerns the very substance of Security Council Resolution 12/99.
5292	I know that this is an extremely delicate issue, but we should all be questioning the logic behind this resolution and its chances of being implemented.
5293	We advocate that it should be implemented in its entirety.
5294	Nevertheless, we must look at this resolution, and this is also something that the United Nations Security Council will probably have to do sooner or later. We will have to do so because, as has happened in the past in other contexts and in other strategically important situations across the world, we must be in a position to assess a certain kind of process, and a certain kind of logic and balance - which were in fact the logic and the balance which led to this resolution being approved - should be maintained in future.
5295	What we have to do, and we in the European Union are already doing it, is to guarantee Mr Kouchner all the necessary resources, and you are right, Mr Rübig, we have a duty to our citizens to explain to them regularly and openly whether or not these resources are being properly used.
5296	We in the Council will be trying to provide information on this matter during the Portuguese Presidency.
5297	Mr Seixas da Costa, I totally agree with you.
5298	The problem is not Mr Kouchner but the legal basis on which he is working, namely Resolution 1244.
5299	Having said this, the EU' s responsibility, which is both yours and ours, is to try and move beyond the provisional nature of Resolution 1244 and devise a future scenario for the whole region.
5300	It is the failure to define this scenario which is causing or encouraging the excesses, accidents and assassinations mentioned by Mr Alavanos.
5301	Does the Council intend to raise the question of the definitive status of Kosovo?
5302	If so, does it intend to do so within a general redefinition of the region, avoiding as far as possible the multiplication of micro-States, as has tended to happen elsewhere, and reuniting the parties, in this case Kosovo and Albania?
5303	Since the author is not present, Question No 7 lapses.
5304	Question No 8 by (H-0796/99):
5305	Subject: New INTERREG Initiative In point 1 of Annex 2 to its draft Communication on INTERREG entitled: Promotion of urban, rural and coastal development, the Commission authorises for the renovation and development of historic urban centres using a joint cross-border strategy.
5306	However, housing is specifically excluded.
5307	Given the fact that there are many houses in rural areas which are of historic interest, including small cottages, and, given the need, for a variety of reasons, to maintain rural populations and to attract people to rural areas, does not the Council agree that these objectives could be assisted if housing projects were funded in the areas covered by INTERREG?
5308	Mr President, the Council and, I think, the Portuguese Presidency in particular, are extremely aware of the importance of the problems Mr Gallagher' s question raises and I would like to say that we have always paid the utmost attention to Community policies for the development of rural areas.
5309	I would like to point out that in May 1999 we adopted a new system for supporting rural development which was the fourth Community reference framework for sustainable rural development. This was, as you know, one of the changes made during the Agenda 2000 negotiations and it changes the way in which agricultural issues are dealt with at Community level.
5310	Through the European Agricultural Guarantee and Guidance Fund, the EAGGF, this Community support framework is designed to help reverse the trend of abandoning rural areas, an issue you are quite right to raise.
5311	On the other hand, the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, also contributes as part of its role to promoting social and economic cohesion, by redressing the main regional imbalances and encouraging rural areas to take part in development and conversion.
5312	In this regard, we should bear in mind that the ERDF also contributes to promoting sustainable rural development and to creating sustainable employment in rural areas.
5313	This combination of instruments enables us to implement a policy of rural development which today, furthermore, is one of the ways in which the common agricultural policy - in one of its dimensions - and regional policy also, have developed and changed.
5314	We think that this is one of the most fundamental issues within the concept of multifunctionality which is now associated with changes in the common agricultural policy, and the EAGGF, of course, has a crucial role to play in this.
5315	Question No 9 by (H-0798/99):
5316	Subject: Farming and the Portuguese Presidency Will the Council outline the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency for the next six months as regards the common agricultural policy and indicate the steps it feels are necessary to boost consumer confidence in the agricultural sectors and products adversely affected by recent health scares?
5317	Your question on the common agricultural policy is one which we take very seriously and which should always be considered in this House' s discussions, because in the future we are likely to discuss this issue at great length.
5318	During the Portuguese Presidency, we will be continuing discussions on the CAP, by adapting some of the common market organisations with a view to developing the Union' s rural areas in an appropriate way and guaranteeing an improvement in farmers' incomes, paying particular attention to measures which could have an impact on small family-run farms.
5319	On the other hand, the Portuguese Presidency will continue, if and when the new WTO round begins within its term of office, which is by no means guaranteed, to ensure that the presence of Community production on international markets is strengthened. It will also continue to ensure a greater balance between exported Community farm products and preserving the multifunctional European agriculture to which I have just referred.
5320	The Portuguese Presidency also attaches importance to reinforcing food safety policy and I think that the Portuguese Foreign Minister and President-in-Office already referred to this aspect this morning.
5321	We think that the role of food safety, specifically in terms of everything linked to public health, is one of our presidency' s essential tasks.
5322	It is therefore one of the priorities of our programme.
5323	We shall be developing it in four parallel schemes, in the Agriculture Council, the Health Council, the Consumer Affairs Council and the Internal Market Council.
5324	At the Santa Maria da Feira European Council meeting in June, the Portuguese Presidency will present a report on this issue specifically in the light of the information the Commission presented in its White Paper a few days ago.
5325	We think that the task we now have of establishing a European agency is crucial in order to give credibility to the single market, to stabilise confidence in this market, to break down some of the tensions between Member States in this area and even - it has to be said - to give the European Union a common approach for its dealings with third countries in areas of food safety.
5326	This is what we shall be trying to achieve during the Portuguese Presidency and we hope, at the end of it, to be able to present the result of our efforts to this House.
5327	I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
5328	I am sure that he is aware of the very serious threat to the European model which is based on family farming, mainly those farmers involved in beef and sheepmeat production who are now expected to sell their produce at or below production costs.
5329	I would like to ask what new steps the Council can take to safeguard their interests in the forthcoming world trade talks, in particular, against the ranch and factory-style production of the USA and New Zealand where economies of scale make competitive family farming for European farmers extremely difficult and where, of course, European standards of food safety do not apply.
5330	I completely understand your concerns, and I feel that there is a need for effort and a certain degree of consistency within the European Union itself on this issue.
5331	We also have to think of the consequences, especially in terms of financing and compensating farmers.
5332	Nevertheless, as you know, this issue is now in the hands of the European Commission and it will have to take this further.
5333	The Council' s ability to intervene in this matter is strictly limited.
5334	Mr President, I too would like to welcome the President-in-Office to the Chamber.
5335	But I do not think he answered my question with regard specifically to tackling homelessness and housing and whether the Portuguese Presidency would be willing to meet the non-governmental organisations actively involved in this field.
5336	I appreciate and fully support his point on the need for multiple policies and a multi-disciplinary approach and also the need to combat the underlying causes of exclusion which can lead to homelessness and include the problem of drug dependency.
5337	My specific question concerns the problem of homelessness and whether a new presidency could take a new initiative to try to overcome some of the difficulties the President-in-Office alluded to with regard to support at intergovernmental level.
5338	I feel this is one area where Europe can play a very active role, even if only in providing the conduit for exchange of experience and best practice among the Member States.
5339	Mr Crowley, with regard to the presidency' s scope for supporting actions by non-governmental organisations, particularly those which attempt to resolve the problems faced by the homeless, I would like to say that such initiatives are welcome, and we are very much open to the possibility of supporting them.
5340	We have worked closely with Portuguese NGOs and with some initiatives they have proposed within the framework of the Portuguese Presidency, which we are combining with the wide range of concerns underpinning our whole programme.
5341	We have no specific, concrete initiatives in this area but that does not mean that we are closed to the idea that an initiative proposed to us by NGOs in this area might be considered during our presidency.
5342	It should be pointed out that this can only be done within the Council' s scope for action.
5343	Any aspect of this which may impinge on the Commission' s right of initiative will obviously have to be done through the Commission itself.
5344	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have talked a lot about the future, about what the Commission will do, and what the Presidency will do in Lisbon, etc. However, you also said something which I find particularly frightening.
5345	You said that in Lisbon you intend to discuss more dynamic and competitive development.
5346	I am beginning to feel a little worried because this may lead, partially at least, to exclusion.
5347	I do not see how you could, with the views that you hold, provide any answers.
5348	What I asked and what I am once again asking is the following: what are the views of the Portuguese Presidency on, for example, the appeals made by the network to combat poverty and exclusion, the division of work and social security, the implementation of tax policies, particularly for speculative capital, and the policy of redistributing wealth?
5349	I would like an answer as to whether or not the Portuguese Presidency intends to do something about these matters.
5350	You must understand that a presidency' s ability to reverse global social or economic trends during its six months in office is actually quite limited.
5351	I think that it is also obvious that our ability to act is linked to the Commission' s own scope for intervening, through its right of initiative.
5352	I have spoken about the Special European Council and about Portugal' s initiative in convening it, and I have spoken about the future, because there are two complementary ways of seeing the issue of social exclusion. One of them is the series of measures which must be adopted immediately in order to deal with the specific effects of social exclusion.
5353	The second is to create internationally competitive conditions, which will enable us to improve the economic fabric of the European Union, and this will have positive knock-on effects on the problems of social exclusion.
5354	The Portuguese Presidency does not have a magic wand with which it can, in six months, resolve problems that have always existed.
5355	It is prepared to act on proposals by the Commission in any area for which there is Community competence. It also has the opportunity and the desire to promote the whole raft of measures which may be presented, specifically by non-governmental organisations, but also through the intergovernmental collaboration which is traditional in these matters.
5356	We should, however, also bear in mind, Mr Papayannakis, that we cannot act in an area which will have such a big financial impact, armed only with the measures a presidency can propose in the space of six months.
5357	We therefore think that all the measures we have highlighted in terms of long-term strategies, regardless of the fact that we know that in the long term, some of the homeless may be dead, will help us to guarantee sustainable policies in the European Union.
5358	We will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency.
5359	Question No 12 by (H-0801/99):
5360	Subject: Portuguese Presidency and development policy Will the President-in-Office of the Council make a statement on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency with regard to development policy, the Convention of Lomé and tackling famine situations?
5361	I would like to thank the presidency for the comprehensive answer to my question, and indeed the Minister who spoke to the Committee on Development last week in Brussels outlining the position.
5362	But there are some questions still outstanding.
5363	There does not seem to be any emphasis on the fight against AIDS in the programme.
5364	The situation of AIDS in Africa now is so serious that more people are dying of AIDS than are dying in conflict.
5365	I hope that the Minister will take some time to pursue that particular issue.
5366	Medicines are available in the United States but the United States is not making them cheap enough for the people in Africa.
5367	I should like to ask the Minister what precisely he is doing about the situation that is developing in Ethiopia where there is drought, where the crops have failed, and where, in six months' time, we will inevitably be back to the situation as it was some years ago in Ethiopia with famine and people dying in their thousands.
5368	At the same time, there is a war going on between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the armaments industry in Europe is not short in sending guns, after which we will send the bread.
5369	First of all, Mr Andrews, you must understand that I do not agree with your interpretation of my colleague' s speech during the meeting of the Committee on Development.
5370	There is no contradiction between our two positions, quite the opposite.
5371	Unless we wish to act like megalomaniacs, we cannot in the course of one presidency perform an exhaustive inventory of all possible and imaginary situations relating to all the enormous issues we face, particularly in the area of external relations.
5372	As you can understand, it would be easy to do so.
5373	All we would have to do is get a directory of development and put all the items in our programme, one after the other.
5374	We are sufficiently responsible to realise that we should only include those which we will be able to manage during the term of our Presidency and - we should always be aware of this - within governments' ability to act and within the scope of the Council.
5375	We must understand that there are limitations on what we can achieve, particularly in terms of managing national indicative programmes.
5376	You have mentioned Ethiopia, which falls within the scope of national indicative programmes, but there are, as you know, several Community actions to combat AIDS, and in this respect, you are right, and the United States will probably not do any better.
5377	Indeed, in terms of development aid policy, I think that Europe has absolutely nothing to worry about for the simple reason that our behaviour in this area compares very favourably with that of the United States.
5378	Your question switched to the subject of arms, a broader policy issue which I do not think falls within the scope of this question but which the Council will, of course, address in the future, if it sees fit and if it decides to put it in a specific context.
5379	Is the Council aware of the social problems caused by the export of food by the EU to developing countries at prices below the cost of production?
5380	Does the presidency intend to do anything about this?
5381	Since the author is not present, Question No 13 lapses.
5382	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, and I would personally like to welcome him and the Portuguese Presidency.
5383	Please allow me to remark on how well-versed and well-informed he is on European affairs.
5384	Unfortunately, in my case, he did not provide what I would call a satisfactory answer.
5385	Since the Council recognises the fact that culture is a major economic asset, it should, in my view, demonstrate this in practice.
5386	Saying that the cultural dimension is governed by the principle of subsidiarity and that it is therefore national governments who are responsible is, I am afraid, just an excuse.
5387	My question, which has not been answered, is why, when the European Parliament is looking to increase appropriations to fund cultural programmes within the European Union, the Council and the Commission are cutting back on appropriations and at times cutting them out altogether.
5388	This is a true example of the Council' s indifference towards culture, despite its assurances to the contrary that it is a matter to which it attaches great importance.
5389	I would therefore like to ask the Council if it is prepared henceforth to support culture with the same readiness as it supported bananas, hops, cows and Indian hemp.
5390	Mr Marinos, we are not adopting a purely economic approach to managing the Portuguese Presidency, and therefore, the cultural dimension is, I am sure you will appreciate, one of our main concerns.
5391	These cultural dimensions, however, almost always have their own economic dimension in turn, that is the level of resources which can be called on specifically to provide aid for cultural initiatives.
5392	This is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the European Union, and especially within the framework of the Council.
5393	For our part, we shall be attempting to strengthen and consolidate the European position on cultural goods and services and on activities in this sphere, because we believe that this is an identifying feature which is crucial to the Union' s image and to the Union' s own particular identity.
5394	This is, and will continue to be, connected with developments within the World Trade Organisation.
5395	As you know, both we and the Council have addressed this issue appropriately. In specific terms, we have been able to find a common language in terms of the mandate given to the Commission for the next round of WTO negotiations, at which this will be a central issue.
5396	Nevertheless, I would like to add that with regard to cultural policy, and in particular the audiovisual dimension, the Portuguese Presidency will be paying very close attention to extending and enriching European audiovisual policy by adopting a Media-Plus programme which could go some way towards allaying Europe' s main fears.
5397	We also intend to initiate a new debate, a more innovative one, on the issue of Europe' s film heritage, given that this must be one of the most important factors in the development of a European cultural identity and of a European audiovisual economy.
5398	The Presidency will also concentrate on discussions about creating a digital television system in Europe, which will be the subject of a conference that we shall be organising during the Portuguese Presidency, in conjunction with the Commission, in February 2000.
5399	But, Mr Marinos, in the EU context, culture is an issue which is repeatedly raised in connection with IGC agendas.
5400	If, by chance, it were possible to agree to include the cultural dimension in what has been called the fifth negotiating box of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, then this could be suggested, both by Member States, and by the Members of the European Parliament taking part in the preparatory group.
5401	Of course, if consensus could be reached on this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference, there might eventually be progress.
5402	It remains to be seen whether or not there is a consensus on this.
5403	We will soon see, and for our part, we will bear in mind any suggestions on this issue.
5404	Mr President, I join others in wishing Portugal every good wish for a successful presidency.
5405	I notice that you said this particular issue was not currently on your agenda for the next IGC but if some people wished it, you would consider it.
5406	Well, I, and my fellow 35 British Conservative MEPs wish it and would like you to please consider it.
5407	I appreciate that it is a provocative question.
5408	It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves.
5409	We have to find some way of putting pressure on such countries to do just that so we can reconnect with our citizens.
5410	I cannot think of a better way to do it.
5411	Can you?
5412	The issue is whether the European dimension will become stronger or weaker as a result of being specifically integrated into the Treaties.
5413	This is an issue which, as you will understand, will have to be addressed at IGC level and is an issue that only a Special European Council can authorise the Portuguese Presidency to pursue, because this kind of issue falls outside the institutional framework in which the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference will take place.
5414	Intergovernmental Conferences are a kind of event in themselves and could also be a type of Christmas tree.
5415	It is therefore not out of the question that these issues, which crop up again and again, and which are passed from one conference to another, may be addressed.
5416	The problem facing us at the moment is whether there is currently a consensus within the European Union on this issue being included, particularly bearing in mind that if one such issue is included, other issues of a similar nature will probably be added to the conference' s agenda.
5417	Mr Dimitrakopoulos has the floor for a procedural motion.
5418	I would ask him to be brief.
5419	Mr President, I understand that I have to do this very quickly.
5420	I liked what Mr Seixas da Costa said about Father Christmas.
5421	In Spain they say a letter to the three kings.
5422	I simply wish to remind you that the European Parliament has already sent a letter to the three kings through its reports.
5423	Now the Presidency and the Council have to bring the presents which we have asked them for in our letter to the three kings.
5424	As I suspected, it was not exactly a procedural motion, but more a closing of the debate.
5425	We thank Mr Seixas da Costa, but he can also write his letter to the three kings.
5426	I would merely say that the festive issue which Mr Dimitrakopoulos has raised is an extremely important one.
5427	The problem is that in this case Father Christmas has to follow orders and therefore he can only give presents when he is authorised by others to do so.
5428	It is not the Portuguese Presidency' s job to hand out the presents that everyone wants, especially those that the European Parliament is asking for.
5429	After this interesting exchange of opinions, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to tell you that Questions Nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing.
5430	That concludes questions to the Council.
5431	Capital tax
5432	The next item is the joint debate on:
5433	the oral question (B5-0004/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Council, on the Council position on the idea of a capital tax
5434	the oral question (B5-0005/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Commission, on the Commission position on the idea of a capital tax.
5435	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, during the Asian crisis in 1997, as with those which hit Mexico in 1995 or the EMS in 1993, everyone could see the damage caused to the economies of entire countries by financial speculation, particularly currency speculation.
5436	Between EUR 1 500 and 2 000 billion are traded every day on the financial markets. In three or four days, this can equal the total figure of annual global production, or global GDP, of approximately EUR 6 000 billion.
5437	The bulk of these financial transactions are purely speculative and do not involve any trade in goods or investments.
5438	Yet the erratic movement of these massive sums of capital can, in a few hours, cause the collapse of a currency or the economy of a country, plunging its whole population into recession.
5439	In view of this situation, renewed interest has been expressed in the proposal by James Tobin, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, to create a tax on currency transactions. The rate of this would be very low so that it did not affect trade in goods or investments, but it would act as a light brake on the wheels of speculation, thereby checking the multiplication of short-term transactions.
5440	Note that this proposed tax, which seems to be producing strong emotions in some people, would be the lowest tax in the world and the lowest in the history of global taxation. Yet it would represent the recapture of the areas seized from democracy by the financial sphere.
5441	One reason for the acceptance of this proposal, and of the campaigns by NGOs such as ATTAC, SOLIDAR or others which have popularised this proposal, is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries, in areas such as education or health.
5442	It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty.
5443	Many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the Brazilian President, Fernando Cardoso, the Finnish Government, the Canadian Parliament last March and also Lionel Jospin in 1995.
5444	This question has been debated in several national parliaments of the EU.
5445	The common response has been that this tax could not be applied solely at national level and that the right platform for tackling this is the European Union. This is the reason for the oral question to the Council and Commission which we have tabled with 37 other Members.
5446	This motion asks the Commission to present a report to Parliament within six months on the feasibility of this tax. It also asks for an examination of the pressures and financial sanctions which could be applied against countries which encourage tax evasion or which maintain tax havens.
5447	The motion also asks that a position document, drawn up by the Commission and Council, should be submitted before the next annual meeting of the IMF.
5448	The European Union must take the initiative and must also, as demanded in the motion, propose this initiative to the G7 because it is primarily a political question.
5449	If the Union takes the initiative, this will have a ratchet effect because this debate is occurring all over the world, including in the USA and Japan. A desire is being expressed everywhere with increasing force that the world should not be ruled by traders but by the people, their parliaments, their governments and their democratic institutions.
5450	Europe must play a role in this new international regulation and I am extremely happy that today, with this debate and this motion, this question is now on the agenda of European construction.
5451	Madam President, I do not have a great deal to add on this subject.
5452	The Council has not yet discussed the possibility of introducing a tax on movements of capital as Professor Tobin suggested.
5453	This is a creative initiative, which we know has been welcomed by different industries across the world and by various sides in European politics, but the Commission has not yet put forward any proposal or initiative on this issue.
5454	As it falls to the Commission to propose any such initiative, the Council has not yet been able to adopt a position on this issue.
5455	Madam President, the revenue basis of the Tobin tax is said to be made up of very short-term exchange transactions.
5456	Such transactions, according to the argument, bear very little relation to fundamental economic variables.
5457	This has also just been underlined by Mr Désir.
5458	Therefore, according to proponents, such as Mr Désir, an internationally applied Tobin tax would, in principle, reduce speculative transactions and, hence, the volatility of exchange rates, which would lead to an improvement in economic prosperity.
5459	Taking into account the considerable volume of short-term financial streams, even a low nominal Tobin tax would yield respectable sums of tax revenue.
5460	In reality, the motive underlying the increased interest in the Tobin tax and other sources of international finance in the mid-nineties was non-economic. Indeed, it was fuelled by the potential of this tax to generate income for international, public programmes at a time when demand for such funds was rising quickly and funding was increasingly harder to come by.
5461	The Commission recently observed renewed interest in a global tax, such as the Tobin tax, as a means of achieving socially responsible globalisation, so to speak.
5462	Mr Désir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides.
5463	But if the Tobin tax were to be applied unilaterally in order to prevent attacks on a specific currency, then this tax could not be effective and it could harm the internal financial market.
5464	Put more strongly, in the long term it is possible that for large numbers of funds, the Tobin tax will be evaded by shifting foreign exchange rate transactions to off-shore tax havens.
5465	In that case, the tax could lead to a net loss of total economic prosperity.
5466	So the Tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate.
5467	Finally, even if the Tobin tax is designed to curb speculations with currencies, there is still the risk that even non-speculative streams would be affected, and that is not the intention.
5468	For the reasons set out above, I cannot see a good reason for introducing a European Tobin tax.
5469	At any rate, the Commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the European Union.
5470	In more direct terms, to the extent that this measure could be deemed an indirect restriction on capital streams, this would contravene the Treaty of Rome.
5471	The correct speculative approach, it seems to me, is to remove the real causes which lead to financial chaos, rather than attempting to suppress its symptoms by introducing obstacles to the operation of the markets.
5472	Madam President, Commissioner, I should like once again to say a few words on the modus operandi and the ideological tactics behind this oral question.
5473	Also because I know how many social democrats in this House share our criticism, and not just the economic and financial policy experts.
5474	We know what the problem is: instability on the markets as the result of speculation.
5475	But the people asking the question need to know that not every instance of instability, as the Commissioner has just so impressively told us, is the result of speculation.
5476	The Tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the EEA in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south-east Asian currencies in 1997.
5477	The initiators of this question do not propose a solution; instead they are calling for a new burden, they are calling for more bureaucracy, for a measure which runs counter to the market mechanisms and they are taking up plenary' s time with an intergroup opinion which excludes the competent parliamentary committee, contrary to several resolutions by Parliament.
5478	In my view, and I say this quite clearly, the question is ideologically motivated rather than solution-focused.
5479	I consider this to be the wrong way forward for several reasons.
5480	Why do we reject the Tobin tax and consider it so questionable?
5481	First, and the Commissioner has also confirmed this, because it places a heavy burden on the capital markets.
5482	Even a small tax would have serious repercussions on the capital markets, because this sort of speculation tax would reduce the profitability of investments considerably.
5483	In addition, this sort of measure would also seriously hamper the development of the financial markets and would stand in the way of the principle of the free movement of capital, which is one of the central tenets of the internal market.
5484	Secondly, speculative capital is extremely difficult to identify.
5485	Thirdly, unless they are introduced in all countries at the same time, tax measures are easy to circumvent because there are otherwise too many loopholes.
5486	Fourthly, technically speaking, this measure is highly impracticable and will result in a great deal of bureaucracy and administration and be impossible to control.
5487	The measure which we should be taking is part of the resolution before us here today.
5488	We need stronger banking supervision.
5489	We need to clarify the liability for transactions.
5490	We need a framework of regulations at international level.
5491	We need to examine national laws in order to check that they comply with the rules of the Basle committee and how the dissemination of these rules can be stepped up.
5492	I have a serious problem with one of the central points of this resolution which we cannot accept as it stands. I refer to point 9.
5493	Having listened to the Commissioner just now, we know that the Commission' s knowledge of the facts will result in a 'no' to the Tobin tax.
5494	If the knowledge of the facts and this debate and the arguments are as we say, and I think that they are right, then to take up another six months of the Commission' s time and occasion uncertainty on the financial and capital markets would be irresponsible.
5495	The capital markets do not want uncertainty from us, they want clarity; which is why we reject point 9 and call for a split vote.
5496	Madam President, the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one.
5497	We have been discussing the Tobin tax proposal for twenty years and yet the question is still topical because we need really concrete and honest answers based on careful studies.
5498	We need to know just how desirable and feasible a tax on short-term transactions really is.
5499	This question has now entered a different dimension, a dimension in which USD 1 500 billion roam the world twenty-four hours a day looking for attractive investments, no more than 3% of which have anything to do with the real economy.
5500	We are concerned about stability on the financial markets, not for the sake of the financial markets, but because this has to do with own growth, our own investments and our own jobs in the European Union.
5501	We must ask what instruments we can use in order to create the order here which has been missing in the past.
5502	We have done everything to help liberalise financial transactions, but so far we have had no working set of rules, as we have learned from the bitter lessons of the repercussions of the Asian and Latin American crises.
5503	It is therefore high time that we thought both about supervisory regulations and about transparency on the financial markets and their information.
5504	It is important that we know who the actors are and what their credit rating is.
5505	We must also ask if there is not a need for fiscal justice.
5506	At a time when the tax burden on the work factor is increasing throughout Europe and internationally, we must consider how we can achieve efficient taxation of investment income and that includes the question of how to tax short-term financial transactions.
5507	I think that we really do need a careful report and conclusions from the Commission, so that we as the European Parliament can see if we need to ensure that the European Union achieves real international solidarity with the USA and Japan in making the economy and the financial markets more stable and secure.
5508	This is the intention behind the question and we must then follow the ordinary procedures of reports from committees and plenary debate in order to reach a balanced and really forward-looking proposal.
5509	Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must express my surprise at this debate on the international movement of capital and its possible taxation which, although it does not mention it in the text, appears to be an attempt to revive, as the introduction has done, the issue of the tax proposed some years ago by Mr Tobin, which our Group opposed, clearly and totally, during the last legislature, with a series of arguments clearly and coherently expressed by our President, Mr Cox.
5510	I will have to repeat these arguments, modestly, in this intervention, because the same issue has arisen once again.
5511	We do not agree with this type of tax because its application, in the event that it could happen, would not achieve the aims which Mr Tobin presented at the time and which the Left in this House wishes to revive.
5512	Firstly, there is no evidence that the tax on international capital movements could reduce the dangers of volatility and instability in the international markets.
5513	On the contrary, since it is certain that not all countries would accept it, we would open the way to speculation and fraud and that really would create volatility, instability, insecurity, opacity and unfair competition in the field of financial services operating on an international level.
5514	Furthermore, the idea of obtaining resources to apply them to the more economically needy countries presents such complexity, when we consider their application in practice, that it appears simply impossible.
5515	This is a false debate whose aim is purely political, and has no basis or technical viability.
5516	Furthermore - since we are in this European Parliament - if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the Commission within the European Union, how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level?
5517	I suppose that the first thing they say will be, 'let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union' .
5518	However, the Liberal Group has not wanted to close the door to a new analysis of this issue and, therefore, we have accepted a joint motion for a resolution proposing that a study be carried out on the possibility and suitability of imposing this tax on certain areas of international capital movements.
5519	I am sure that this study - if carried out objectively, with knowledge of the financial markets and their mechanisms on an international level - will show that it is neither suitable nor possible, not only in terms of its application, but also as a means of achieving the proposed objectives.
5520	In itself, globalisation is positive.
5521	The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level.
5522	This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital.
5523	Any analysis of economic development in recent years, if objective, will show, through the figures, that they have no political colour or orientation.
5524	As I have said, we are not opposed to such a study.
5525	We will support the motion for a resolution in support of this study, but we simply insist that, as this motion for a resolution points out, it is by means of liberalisation and opening up at an international level that we will achieve economic progress, both on the level of states and on a general level.
5526	Madam President, Commissioner, the problem does not lie in the ideology of the debate but in its political nature.
5527	As Mrs Randzio-Plath said, we must remember that the reason why certain Members want to revive this question is because of the recent international financial crises and their economic, social and environmental consequences which have been felt by all in some countries.
5528	The main objective of this debate is to look at the instruments available to the international community for stabilising the international financial and monetary system.
5529	In this respect, Mr Bolkestein, the motion for a resolution cannot be separated from the issue of the Tobin tax.
5530	If you look carefully, this proposed tax on capital is just one of several instruments aimed at forcing international investors to behave responsibly on the financial markets.
5531	Secondly, the motion does not say that we want a solely European initiative.
5532	This is why we explicitly refer to the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund so that the European Union, in other words the Commission and also the Council, can decide how it will defend the opportunity to stabilise the international financial and monetary system and introduce international taxation.
5533	There should be no confusion in this debate. As environmentalists, we do not want an excuse for a motion.
5534	Although a study produced by the Commission would doubtless be interesting, we do not need another to add to those already available.
5535	We do need to obtain, from the Commission and the Council, in other words from each of the governments forming the Union, a clear, positive or negative, political stance. They must indicate whether they are ready to defend, within competent public bodies such as the International Monetary Fund in the first instance, the appropriateness of such a tax within the other instruments needed to stabilise the international monetary system.
5536	As for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty, very short-term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short-term financial assets.
5537	This argument is therefore not relevant.
5538	I will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments.
5539	However, I would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion, but also paragraph 10.
5540	We clearly expect a political stance to be taken with a very firm deadline of the preparations for the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund. We therefore demand, if this motion is adopted tomorrow, that the Commission and Council appear before Parliament to tell us what positions they will take on this occasion.
5541	Madam President, my Group is extremely delighted that this debate is taking place today, particularly as we have spared no effort along with Members of other groups to bring this about.
5542	Obviously we all have different approaches which is demonstrated by our debate and the motions for a resolution tabled at the beginning.
5543	Having said this, our Group is pleased about the step forward which the compromise motion represents.
5544	This invites the Commission to present a report within six months.
5545	The European Parliament can play its role by taking the initiative, even if it does so timidly, on this subject. However, I agree with the previous speaker that, if paragraph 9 were challenged, this motion would clearly lose its substance.
5546	This debate concerns a vital question which increasing numbers of people are legitimately raising. What are the respective places of people and finance in today' s economy?
5547	USD 1 800 billion is the volume of money moved every day in the world' s currency markets. This represents over a quarter of the annual global volume of trade in goods and services.
5548	By putting finance at the helm, this has reinforced the demands of profitability and toughened the operating conditions everywhere.
5549	It has led to a growth in mergers, acquisitions and company restructuring and to gigantic sums being raised with increasing frequency on the financial markets.
5550	Unemployment and pressure on employees worldwide is increasing.
5551	Openings and real growth are being hampered and the sudden influx or withdrawal of speculative capital is threatening the economies of many countries, to the point of collapse, as in Asia, Russia and Brazil.
5552	Faced with this neoliberal globalisation dominated by the financial markets, demand, as our motion recognises, is developing from a different idea of the world in which common law stipulates a duty of solidarity in an increasingly interdependent world.
5553	No one can ignore the challenge to civilisation posed by the lack of nearly one billion jobs and the need to make unprecedented efforts in terms of development and access to information.
5554	In this respect, all ideas deserve to be considered, including the Tobin tax which is important, just like other forms of transaction which may be envisaged.
5555	This tax could help to check speculation without penalising the activities of the real economy. It could release new resources for investment in people and, at a time when the UNDP estimates the sum needed to eradicate poverty to be USD 40 billion per year, it could allow access for everyone to drinking water and satisfy health needs.
5556	When the debate on the ability of politics to influence economics goes global, the establishment of this tax could become one of the symbols of the political desire to recapture the democratic areas seized by the international financial operators.
5557	The Commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this.
5558	I would point out that the European Union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and, like Mr Désir and several other speakers, I feel that the European Union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect.
5559	In any case, the European Parliament would be honoured to take up the call of the people to control the world in order to achieve a sense of well-being for everyone.
5560	Madam President, I too am delighted that we are having this debate. I only regret that it has been so long in coming.
5561	We know that each generation has, over the course of time, blindly bought into what could be called a dominant ideology. This is a set of prejudices accepted as such due to a general conformism, but whose dramatic nature can be seen by subsequent generations.
5562	Free trade and the constant worship of globalisation are now the dominant ideology or, rather, the big mistake of our fin de siècle. This ideology is as dangerous as the former ideology of the dictatorship of the proletariat in the corridors of the Kremlin or, before that, the certainty, elevated to the status of a dogma, that the earth was flat.
5563	Our world is now dominated by a single logic or, I could say, a single god of money at work instead of people at work.
5564	With a figure for trade in goods and services of FRF 36 000 billion only being equal to the product of four days' speculation, the financial bubble owes very little to the productive activity of individuals.
5565	It is self-perpetuating in a world of ever higher bids which constantly denies the humanity of man, the rich as much as the poor. Yet it is the latter who, at the end of the day, are excluded from the majority of the world' s decision-making centres for these are monopolised by a tiny minority referred to recently, and very aptly, by Jean-Pierre Chevènement as the globalised élites.
5566	It was natural that these élites would exclude any political concerns from their field of manoeuvre, thus protecting themselves from any democratic control and basically managing to be both illegitimate and irresponsible.
5567	However, the people are fighting back, as demonstrated by their reaction during the incredible Seattle Summit. The leaders of the world, headed unfortunately by the European Commission, rushed forward submissively, hoping that their docility at the feet of the master of the world, Mr Clinton, would be enough to ensure them the scraps from the table.
5568	Yet they reckoned without the salutary reaction of the nobodies, both individuals and States. This reaction was more organised than previously, due in France particularly to the magnificent ATTAC network which is fighting with increasing support to limit free trade in general and to establish taxation of international financial transactions in particular.
5569	The creation of this taxation, of either the Tobin type or the more realistic type proposed by Professor Lauré, could prove to be politically opportune, at least due to its symbolism rather than its low rate. This is because it would basically mean that politics was regaining a foothold in an area from which it has been excluded by operators whose profits are proportional to the degree of resignation of States.
5570	Madam President, although some of the aims of the Tobin tax are fairly worthy of support, introducing the tax exclusively within the territory of the European Union, as the first area of the world to do so, would sound the death knell for the European currency markets.
5571	If the world' s other important currency trading areas were to be excluded from the Tobin tax, the fact that tax was liable to be paid in Europe would lead to currency dealing moving to those areas.
5572	This has already been made clear a number times in this debate.
5573	It is not enough that all the world' s industrialised countries should be included in the scheme, as then currency trading would move to tax havens outside that group of countries.
5574	There should therefore be a universal application: it is not enough that the G7 countries or the other industrialised countries are involved.
5575	On the other hand, it would be so difficult to bring the scheme into force everywhere in the world at precisely the same time - and personally speaking, I do not believe we can achieve this - that the Tobin tax dream might as well be buried.
5576	Furthermore, although there might be international consensus on the introduction of the scheme, the question would remain regarding how the tax revenue would be distributed.
5577	The world' s currency dealing centres will hardly agree to the tax revenue being used, for example, for a variety of well-meaning, UN-backed purposes throughout the world without a considerable amount of the revenue remaining with them.
5578	With regard to the Tobin tax as a means of preventing future currency crises, it has to be realised that the causes of a currency being overvalued cannot be averted through taxation.
5579	For that reason, as Mr Karas also said, we should give more attention to the policies that lead to a certain currency being overvalued in relation to its actual potential value.
5580	This again would require measures to regulate the exportation and importation of capital; otherwise it would not be possible to focus on policies in this way.
5581	Although it seems a reasonable scheme, the Tobin tax is not without its problems, even if there should be agreement as to its implementation, which I do not believe there will.
5582	It has to be remembered that money at present is first and foremost information, and that the global economy will, in the future, rotate more and more on the basis of information and intellectual capital.
5583	For that reason, the uninterrupted flow of assets in massive volumes between the world' s financial centres is not merely speculative activity, which has nothing to do with the real economy.
5584	If this 'feedback' mechanism, which gives users the opportunity to make choices, were hampered by measures such as the Tobin tax, mistaken decisions might be made that turned out to be so costly in terms of the economic consequences that the tax would never be able to make up for it.
5585	Hence, as Mr Karas has stated to his credit, our Group is resolutely opposed to the introduction of the Tobin tax.
5586	Madam President, I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders.
5587	It seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary.
5588	In the last 30 years, the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times: firstly, total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading; secondly, annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three-and-a-half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350, that is, 1% of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99% are for speculation.
5589	The size, unpredictability and irrationality of the global foreign exchange markets have made it harder and harder to manage national and regional economies.
5590	Computer-controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche, burying jobs, lives and industries across the globe.
5591	The only arguments against it are: firstly, it would impair the efficiency of the foreign exchange market - a little fanciful in light of the financial feeding frenzies we have seen that have destroyed jobs throughout the world, in East Asia, Europe and Latin America.
5592	Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy.
5593	What is necessary is to throw some sand into the wheels of the currency speculators, stockbrokers and option traders.
5594	Of course, this cannot be done in one country; it cannot be done within the single currency area, but it could be done at international level with global cooperation.
5595	Europe, Japan and the US - the euro, the yen and the dollar, would constitute, in my opinion, such a block.
5596	I am disappointed in the EPP.
5597	I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on.
5598	Yes, I am in favour of such a tax, but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow.
5599	What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter, to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax.
5600	Equally I understand the Commissioner failing to endorse such a tax, but I cannot understand why he failed to have the courage to welcome the opportunity to demonstrate the truth of his position by a study of the issue.
5601	There is nothing so closed as a closed mind.
5602	The tax has the support of 47% of the people in the UK, according to a recent survey by War on Want.
5603	In France it has had enormous resonance, particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty.
5604	This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament, the Council or the Commission.
5605	There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than: "It has not been done before".
5606	In the new millennium, with new global problems requiring new global solutions, they need to give good arguments why it cannot be done now, rather than why it has not been done in the past.
5607	Madam President, Commissioner, a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules. I have two or three points to make in this respect.
5608	One of the main demands of the demonstrators in Seattle was, rightly, the establishment of this type of tax, and this is not by chance.
5609	The proposal of this tax today sends out a strong signal from the rich European countries proving that they want to move away from the culture of egoism.
5610	Everyone feels that this kind of joint tax is a virtuous measure which does not prevent trade but is aimed primarily at speculation and its perverse effects. The Members on the right should note this.
5611	It symbolises the need for solidarity with the countries of the south, particularly those in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific which questioned us extensively on this subject in Seattle.
5612	In order to fully achieve its objective, the money supply released by such a tax must be redistributed among the poorest countries.
5613	This is how we can give sense and morality to the commercial rules and show solidarity with the people of the south.
5614	Madam President, we cannot just keep repeating the number which several previous speakers have quoted; we must also mention the fact, Commissioner, that 80% of these huge, daily foreign exchange sales have an investment term of no more than eight days.
5615	We cannot maintain a situation in which investments and the creation of jobs are less lucrative than short-term sales of foreign currency and shares.
5616	We cannot maintain a situation in which we allow ourselves to destroy the opportunity to take political action.
5617	We cannot maintain a situation in which income from non-economic activities increases more and more quickly.
5618	It has been demonstrated in Germany that income from monetary assets has almost doubled from 7.6% of overall economic income since Tobin developed his idea.
5619	We cannot maintain a situation in which the poorest countries of the world are most exposed to the speculative arguments surrounding short-term currency fluctuations.
5620	Nor do I believe that this is impracticable.
5621	Why should it not be possible for the G7 countries, the other EU Member States, China, Singapore and Switzerland to come to an agreement on the introduction of the Tobin tax?
5622	There must be an overriding economic interest.
5623	Why should it be impracticable, and it can be differentiated, to impose this tax on spot foreign exchange transactions, all the so-called cash transactions, currency futures and options?
5624	Why should it be impracticable to set this tax at a rate which does not jeopardise the long-term investments needed by the economy but which finally makes short-term and speculative investments unattractive.
5625	Numerous very difficult questions are bound to arise, but the only real problem which I can see so far is one of political will and the St. Florian principle of shifting responsibility from one agency to another which has now taken hold.
5626	Madam President, we are not asking for more bureaucracy, as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago.
5627	We are looking for solutions.
5628	Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea.
5629	The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question.
5630	"The more progress is made towards trade liberalisation, the more rules are needed", as Commissioner Lamy said during the Millennium Round in Seattle.
5631	He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union's construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations.
5632	Now that financing is readily available across national boundaries without any difficulty the same approach will obviously be strictly necessary, all the more so as we consider that an enormous amount every single day is employed in speculative transactions.
5633	We citizens of the world cannot afford the current rate of speculation.
5634	To continue would be economic suicide.
5635	Honourable Members, Commissioner, it is often said that Europe has succeeded in stabilising the economic sector, but this is only true if we confine ourselves purely to the public sector.
5636	If we look at the private sector, however, we will find not only that this fabled 'financial stability' has been unsuccessful but that we are most probably sitting on a volcano ready to erupt at any moment.
5637	The debt burdens of the private sector and the corresponding excessive inflation of Stock Exchange securities, the two main market stability indicators, have, for some time, been at danger levels, as the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe clearly illustrates.
5638	The fact that the public accepts such rates and does not just abandon all financial activities in a panic can be explained by overambitious expectations over future gains.
5639	Speculative activities are growing beyond measure and are, in turn, generating profits which will eventually prove to be merely fictitious.
5640	Over-optimism will give way to disappointment and fear, which, in turn, will result in a stock market and economic crisis.
5641	The danger is too great for us to ignore.
5642	We ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem.
5643	Modern economic science has provided an exceptional instrument with the Tobin proposal and others, which we will be able to use if we have the political will to make a start.
5644	That is what we are lacking, Commissioner: the political will to make a start in tackling speculation.
5645	No longer should there be a place in democracy for the worship of, or for this fatalist approach towards, market forces as adopted by the liberals - and I am sorry that Mr Gasòliba I Böhm has left - as this will only lead to its ruin.
5646	Madam President, Mr Bolkestein, the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable.
5647	We needed a Greek Member to finally tell us what this Tobin tax means.
5648	You reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it.
5649	That the Right opposes taxes is quite understandable, except that they should never have been allowed to spirit their millions, or rather billions, into Switzerland.
5650	We all know that!
5651	But now I call on you, in all consciousness, to help put a stop to speculative financial transactions and undermining long-term projects with long-term capital.
5652	It has never been done in south-east Asia, it has never been done in Europe, and I can understand why Mr Karas from Austria has left the chamber, given Austria' s financial record.
5653	They are all tarred with the same dirty brush!
5654	We need a Tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene.
5655	Madam President, I am totally appalled by the Commission' s, i.e. Mr Bolkestein' s, political ignorance!
5656	He should perhaps use his position on the Tobin tax to ask himself why he is here at all!
5657	Madam President, I too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre.
5658	It is perhaps not by chance that the Conservative benches have emptied because that which is represented as market freedom no longer has anything in common with the noble principles of the social market economy which has brought so much prosperity to us here in western Europe over recent decades.
5659	If we continue down this path, and this is the ideology, and declare the financial markets to be sacrosanct and even claim that any intervention in the workings of these markets is contrary to progress and contrary to the growth of the economy, then we will quite certainly be on the wrong tack and that could take on quite dangerous proportions.
5660	Those who own the monetary assets are currently amassing huge fortunes which are again screaming out to be reinvested.
5661	We have asset inflation of global proportions.
5662	As a result, speculative bubbles continually arise on the financial markets, causing growing economic instability which, in turn, jeopardises the entire economy.
5663	And it is precisely the medium-sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result.
5664	We can take action against this; it is possible.
5665	The minimum requirements for this would be for a proper study to be carried out at long last, not only by the Commission, but by reputable economic institutes throughout Europe.
5666	That too is feasible.
5667	And then perhaps everyone will stop bandying about arguments which are asking for trouble!
5668	It is not correct that the Tobin tax is technically impracticable - it is quite feasible in the age of the computer.
5669	The fact that tax havens are frequently nothing but hard disk storage space for large European banks here at home must not be ignored.
5670	In short, we must not allow real capital and speculative capital to become so remote from each other, because otherwise we shall be steering towards situations which we experienced on this continent time and again during the last century and which had catastrophic results.
5671	Madam President, let us indeed tax money speculation: it does not produce anything new.
5672	The tax would be targeted at the right place: at the speculators.
5673	Who is going to defend these speculators, when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax?
5674	Article 73 c of the Treaty establishing the European Union provides scope for taxation on transactions.
5675	Those who oppose taxation on currency dealing are in favour of those tax-recycling centres, the tax havens, of which there are 62 in all.
5676	The Union should make a tax pact, which any countries could initially be party to.
5677	The low rate Tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems.
5678	It is strange to claim that if everyone is not included it would be impossible to bring into effect.
5679	The European Union was founded through the efforts of just a few countries, and you see how we are today.
5680	The truth is the greatest problem is a political one: they do not want to tax capital, but raise personal taxation instead.
5681	In the end tax would politicise the global, undemocratic system of financial power.
5682	Ladies and gentlemen, we must challenge the monopoly the world' s speculative elite have on planning the world' s economy by remaining outside the tax system.
5683	Madam President, may I begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and, above all of course, Mr Désir, for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening.
5684	Whatever one may think about the topic of debate, it is evident that it is an important one.
5685	This is why it has been around for years, and it is satisfying that the Commission is being afforded the opportunity this evening to give a response.
5686	I would like to start by underlining two remarks made by the Member of your Parliament, Mr Gasòliba.
5687	He said that globalisation is a positive phenomenon, and I share his view.
5688	I believe that globalisation has helped many countries which, so far, have been on the sideline of the world trade streams to participate in these and be incorporated into the world trade system and, as far as I am aware, no country has ever been worse off by participating in international trade.
5689	In other words, as indeed already remarked by Mr Gasòliba, globalisation is, in my view, positive, and I am of the opinion that it has contributed to a new international distribution of labour which has been pursued by many people for many years.
5690	A second remark made by Mr Gasòliba was that there is currently no evidence that the Tobin tax will stabilise the exchange rates.
5691	I think that he is correct in this regard.
5692	I too am not aware of any reason why a tax on exchange rate transactions would lead to a stabilisation of exchange rates.
5693	I am of the opinion that these are two important remarks, and that is why I am reiterating them here.
5694	Madam President, could I furthermore point out that none of the speakers this evening has drawn a link between the Tobin tax on the one hand and the functioning of the European Union on the other?
5695	Surely we are all familiar with the Treaty of Rome and know that one of the four freedoms is the freedom of capital movement.
5696	Madam President, I can assure your Parliament that my day-to-day work consists partly of attempting, in conjunction with my offices and colleagues, to completely integrate the financial markets within Europe, thus enabling financial transactions to run as easily and smoothly as possible.
5697	In my capacity as Commissioner for the Internal Market, I am, in other words, opposed to all measures which hamper international financial transactions.
5698	You could hardly expect this Commissioner to agree with a tax which would, in fact, impede international economic movement.
5699	Once again, the Tobin tax is, in my view, at odds with the Treaty of Rome, and this is an important, theoretical objection which has not been considered by any of the speakers this evening.
5700	Madam President, apart from these - to my mind - quite fundamental observations, there are also practical objections to the Tobin tax, as already underlined by Mr Karas and other speakers.
5701	It has unfortunately been observed, I have to say, that the European Union has failed to reach agreement internally on specific tax measures.
5702	This indicates how difficult these dossiers are.
5703	If we have not been able to reach agreement internally, I wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners.
5704	I think that this will be problematic.
5705	Madam President, Mr Jonckheer has stated that this could be one of the measures for stabilising the financial markets.
5706	I think, however, that instability is merely a symptom and that we should be looking at the underlying causes. I think that it is preferable to fight the causes rather than attempt to tackle the symptoms when this is probably not possible and when, as already stated, the measure concerned is pretty certainly at odds with the Treaty of Rome.
5707	In order to remove these causes, one has to look at what is happening in the countries in question.
5708	Is it the case that these countries can boast of what is termed in English 'good governance' ?
5709	Is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates?
5710	That the markets for production factors, including the labour market, operate flexibly?
5711	That is not always the case.
5712	So if we want to look into what causes exchange rate instability, then we need to take into account the elements of good governance and focus on these first.
5713	In addition - and this has also been mentioned already, for example by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm, but also by others - there is a need for more supervision.
5714	More supervision nationally - supervision by national governments of national banks - and internationally, for example by means of the IMF.
5715	So I believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring, on the one hand, that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that, on the other hand, there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses.
5716	Madam President, according to various Members of your Parliament, more funding should still be made available for major projects.
5717	For example, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler spoke in English about 'long-term capital for long-term projects' - this is an obvious issue.
5718	My reply to this is that, firstly, countries should honour their pledges, namely make 0.7% of their Gross National Product available for development aid and cooperation, so that a great deal more money becomes available than at present for such long-term projects and via a route established for the purpose, namely contributions to development cooperation, and not via an artificial and probably harmful route, namely the Tobin tax.
5719	Madam President, I should like to leave it here.
5720	As far as the resolution is concerned, of which I have seen a draft, the Commission will await the vote and will, based on this, determine its stance.
5721	I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate.
5722	I have received four motions for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
5723	Madam President, unfortunately I do not have your mastery of the French language.
5724	But I would be obliged if Mr Bolkestein would just listen for a minute, which I think he cannot do at the same time as talking to Mrs Randzio-Plath.
5725	Could you please draw his attention to the fact that I have something to say to him?
5726	Monsieur Bolkestein, je veux vous dire quelque chose!
5727	Unfortunately, my Dutch is not as good as yours.
5728	But I would rather like to say something else to you.
5729	Parliament is not taking the initiative and supporting a Tobin type tax just to annoy the Commission.
5730	We want to examine the possibility of introducing a Tobin tax.
5731	It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this.
5732	From a political point of view, I always fret when people say, we neither need, want nor can we achieve these things!
5733	It is not your job, it is our job to decide on that.
5734	It also has something to do with the newly awoken self-consciousness of this Parliament.
5735	I just want to discuss it with you, no more and no less.
5736	We can do so without going off at other tangents. I respect you as a serious Commissioner who wants to take his work seriously.
5737	Please respect us as Members of Parliament who want to take our work seriously, and that includes the Tobin tax!
5738	Madam President, an omission appears to have been made. In the list of tabled motions for a resolution which you have just read out, no mention is made of the compromise motion tabled jointly by the PSE, ELDR, GUE/NGL and Greens/EFA Groups and by Mrs Kuntz and Mr Coûteaux.
5739	Mr Désir, I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution.
5740	If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled, it will be included.
5741	The debate is closed.
5742	The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
5743	(The sitting was closed at 8.14 p.m.)
5744	Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
5745	Mr President, I simply wanted to pass on some news. There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid.
5746	Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died.
5747	On behalf of my Group, I once again condemn these terrorist acts.
5748	Thank you, Mrs Fraga Estévez.
5749	We had heard about this regrettable incident.
5750	Unfortunately, the terrorist murderers are once again punishing Spanish society. I note your comments with particular keenness, as you may expect, given that I too am Spanish.
5751	(The Minutes were approved)
5752	Resumption of the session
5753	I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 January 2000.
5754	Madam President, allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the Cermis tragedy.
5755	Two years ago, in Cavalese in Italy, an American aeroplane from the Aviano NATO base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits, causing the deaths of more than 20 Europeans.
5756	Since then, the victims' families, who have not had the consolation of justice, since the pilot responsible has not faced criminal charges, have been awaiting solicitous financial compensation from the United States at the very least.
5757	I therefore appeal to the President of this House and the President of the Commission for them to stand surety for immediate compensation from the U.S. authorities, and this is in order to uphold the rights of the victims' families.
5758	Mrs Angelilli, thank you. I have taken note of your comment.
5759	Agenda
5760	The next item is the order of business.
5761	Following a request to this effect, which I have received from a number of political groups, and following the meeting of the Conference of Presidents which has just been held, I propose that we add to the agenda a one and a half hour debate on a topical and urgent subject of major importance, pursuant to Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, on the subject of the European Union' s reaction with regard to the talks in Austria on forming a government.
5762	If you decide to add this debate to the agenda, it will be introduced by speeches from Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Romano Prodi, President of the Commission.
5763	Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
5764	Madam President, I would like to express my support for the decision of the Conference of Presidents, and, since I publicly criticised the presidency in January, I would like to take this opportunity to say, both for myself and on behalf of the Socialist Group, that we now find the presidency' s statements on this issue to be appropriate, and we agree on their basis, their importance and their form.
5765	Madam President, it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure.
5766	This debate is topical, exceptionally important and urgent.
5767	We therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it.
5768	(Applause)
5769	Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal?
5770	Madam President, I shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which I consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the Treaties, and with particular regard to Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
5771	Madam President, until now we believed that the European Union was, according to the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Paris founding the European Communities, and subsequently the Union, an association of free, independent, sovereign states.
5772	Even though many developments cast doubt on this, we did believe, in spite of everything, that this was the case and, more recently, reference was made, albeit half-heartedly, to the principle of subsidiarity.
5773	Well, patently, if we do open this debate today, Madam President, as you are requesting and as the Conference of Presidents is requesting, on the basis of Rule 50, we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments, enabling some other majority in this Parliament, at some future time, to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free, regular, peaceful and democratic elections within a Member State.
5774	If you ratify ...
5775	Mr Gollnisch, excuse me, you have one minute. I know that you always take particular care to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are observed.
5776	Madam President, I thought I had three minutes.
5777	Do forgive me.
5778	If you ratify this development, then you are ratifying the development of the Union into a body which violates the sovereignty and the freedom of the Member States, and we should then have no option but to withdraw from such a Union.
5779	We have heard one speaker in favour and one against.
5780	I shall now, therefore, put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote.
5781	(Parliament gave its assent)
5782	This debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business.
5783	TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
5784	The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
5785	Talks in Austria on forming a government
5786	The next item is the debate on the talks in Austria on forming a government.
5787	I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council.
5788	Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public.
5789	Let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts.
5790	Firstly, we wish to express our total support for, and our solidarity with, the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the 14 Member States, because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values, and not just the political force, which we have all built together.
5791	In any event, these common values are in complete opposition to those held by the party ironically known as the Austrian Freedom Party.
5792	The Europe we are building is born of the bitter experiences we have all suffered, and the Socialist Group condemns the insults which have been directed at the President of the French Republic and the Belgian Government, but also at the Socialists, who are European citizens as well, because, at the moment, the Austrian Socialists are being described as traitors to their country.
5793	I will say one thing. For many years I was a traitor to my country; at least that was General Franco' s view.
5794	President Guterres was also a traitor in Salazar' s eyes, and that is something that I believe should also be stated and defended by the PPE-DE.
5795	I also believe that the Commission, or President Prodi, has acted as a guardian of the Treaties.
5796	However, I would remind him that, during his inaugural debate, he described the Commission as a European government.
5797	A government must have more nerve and more courage.
5798	That is what I am asking President Prodi for at this moment.
5799	(Applause)
5800	With all due respect to a Commissioner as effective as Mr Fischler, and given that we have heard contradictory comments, depending on the translation, with regard to a possible request by President Prodi for the resignation of Mr Fischler, I would be very grateful if this point could be clarified in this House.
5801	Secondly, Madam President, we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people.
5802	This is an appeal to the majority of Austrians who have not voted for Haider, who have voted for the clearly democratic options, committed to Europe, and I must point out that Mr Schüssel may have been Minister for Finance, but Chancellor Vranitzky also contributed to Austria' s integration process.
5803	We should not be so politically partisan.
5804	The accession of Austria to the Community was a joint venture.
5805	We all took part in it, not just one group.
5806	Therefore, Madam President, I believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the Austrians to reconsider and reflect, because this type of menace, which we have suffered before in Europe, may not only harm Austria, but it may also spread, and I say this bearing history in mind.
5807	Therefore, apart from the apology which Mr Schüssel has made, offering us all kinds of guarantees, as did Chamberlain and Daladier in 1938 in Munich, I would like to know whether the PPE intends to implement measures in relation to the Austrian People' s Party, if it goes ahead with this mad project.
5808	Thirdly, if we do not stand up to this unnatural alliance, I can assure you that we can forget the European Union' s main objective - enlargement - because, if we were Czechs, Slovenes or Hungarians, what would we say, faced with a neighbour who judges us on racial grounds and does not want us to enter?
5809	I therefore think that this is a great day for European politics to commence.
5810	We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option.
5811	(Applause from the PSE Group)
5812	Madam President, my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment.
5813	This is the first time in the history of the modern European project that we stand at the threshold of seeing the mainstreaming of a party of the extreme right.
5814	That is deeply disturbing.
5815	The FPÖ contends that if one reads their literature and their programme, there is much in it that one could share.
5816	That may be, but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we Liberal Democrats had with the Austrian FPÖ in our Liberal International family.
5817	As early as 1986, we had cause to believe that Mr Jörg Haider was not a man whose principles or attitudes were consistent with decency and modern liberalism.
5818	In November of 1991, after a long internal debate in Liberal International and many visits to Vienna to discuss issues, we suspended the FPÖ from membership and in July 1993 we expelled them.
5819	We expelled them then and we continue to reject what Mr Haider stands for now.
5820	Let me share what we learned in that long experience.
5821	There were many in our ranks who said "read the text" .
5822	There were many more in our ranks who said "read the subtext" , " look at the context " .
5823	Words in politics can be incendiary, can be inflammatory, or can be conciliatory.
5824	We found that Mr Jörg Haider, as a wordsmith, has been a voice for racism and for xenophobia.
5825	He is a man who plays on fear and who has exploited vulnerability.
5826	That is why this debate is important - to put down a marker that when you mainstream extremism, something profound is happening in Europe today.
5827	(Applause)
5828	I hasten to add that our quarrel is not with the Austrian people.
5829	We respect the rights of the Austrian people to their own democratic process.
5830	We defend the rights and constitutional prerogatives of the Austrian people, but we here in the European Parliament have the duty to recall our fundamental values as set out in Article 6 of the Treaty - the values of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights.
5831	Every right-thinking person in this House believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour, class or creed.
5832	We must promote and defend those rights, all the while saying to the people of Austria: our quarrel is not with you.
5833	I wish to say with regard to the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency that we support the spirit and the political intention behind it.
5834	It may not be an ideal initiative in terms of its structure but we accept Mr President-in-Office, that it is rooted in idealism and for that reason we are inclined to support it.
5835	I share with President Prodi a preference for the Community method and we must look at Article 6 and Article 7 of the Treaty.
5836	Article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values.
5837	We must find a way as institutions to benchmark and give meaning to this so that it has a reality and a substance.
5838	Then we can work together by the Community method to root out this cancer within our midst.
5839	I want to say Madame President some words to Mr Schüssel.
5840	Mr Schüssel is a man with an honourable record in European politics.
5841	He now intends to ride into government on the back of a political tiger.
5842	Mr Schüssel - you are assuming a very serious, personal, national and European responsibility.
5843	That responsibility, which you Mr Schüssel now take on, is to respect the letter and the spirit of the European Treaties.
5844	Finally, Madame President, this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.
5845	On this continent, of all places, with the experience of hateful racism that we have suffered from in the past and at such great cost, we have to insist that today' s debate is not about interference with the sovereign rights of a State.
5846	It is a dogged insistence by the democratically elected part of the institutions of this Union that we will not as Europeans countenance turning the clock back.
5847	(Loud applause)
5848	Madam President, in my group' s opinion, the European Union today faces a political and ethical challenge which is without precedent since the creation of the Union.
5849	The European Union has certainly previously known situations where there were people in a Member State government whose ideas and actions were in contradiction to the guiding values of the Union.
5850	However, with Haider and his men, we would see the extreme right, openly racist, anti-Semitic and xenophobic, promoted to the rank of co-ruler of our Community.
5851	Going along with such a prospect would be tantamount to testifying, albeit unwillingly, to the respectability of a political force which is not respectable. It would mean making the unacceptable commonplace on the scale of Europe as a whole, it would mean making nonsense of the European institutions' solemn proclamations on the fundamental values which unite us and which we demand, rightly so, of applicants for membership.
5852	This is why we support the spirit of the statement made by the presidency and the 14 Member States, as well as that of the President of the European Parliament, insofar as, unlike the lacklustre and ambiguous statement made by the Commission, it aims to make people get the measure of the danger and to provoke a response.
5853	Of course, there can be no question of casting opprobrium upon the people of Austria.
5854	Any action which can be taken must, in our opinion, serve the twofold function of proscribing Haider without, however, isolating Austrian society.
5855	Democrats in this country now need our support more than ever.
5856	The great joining of forces in protest in Vienna on 12 November last year must now undergo developments suited to the new situation.
5857	We must have dialogue with them and join forces with them, stand at their side in order to offer the people of Austria some alternative prospects.
5858	Finally, we must ask ourselves: how did we come to be in this position?
5859	Certainly, in the first instance, as far as Austrian political leaders are concerned, it is a matter of answering this existential question for the future of democracy, starting with those who have just taken the inordinate risk of giving the extreme right a boost.
5860	But, beyond that, no one, including the European Union, can, in our opinion, be exempted from asking themselves what grounds there are for permitting an unscrupulous demagogue to exploit the frustrations and fears generated by policies in which too many sectors of the population are disregarded.
5861	This debate is now before us, but each and every one of us, male and female, is going to assume their responsibilities without delay.
5862	(Applause)
5863	Madam President, we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the Union, so that we can uphold them together. Instead, we have been forced to debate the formal, substantial errors that have been made in the last few days.
5864	We are astonished by the political naivety of people who, with thoughtless words, have bolstered Mr Haider' s position in Austria and made the Union look ridiculous, riding roughshod over Article 7 of the Treaty by announcing unconstitutional measures.
5865	We have never before seen such serious, clumsy interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
5866	Of course, we cannot violate the founding values of Europe, and in this regard, the Italian Prime Minister stated that these principles are included in a treaty: he mentioned the Treaty of Copenhagen, which I, like you, have never heard of because it does not exist.
5867	Maybe he was referring to the Treaty of Amsterdam, Article 6 of which lists certain principles and Article 7 certain procedures, in order to establish that a Member State is seriously and continuously violating the principles referred to in Article 6.
5868	However, up till now, Austria has committed no serious or persistent violation.
5869	Apart from amounting to interference, the statement by the Presidency is discriminatory because it authorises the penalisation of a population and denies these people their right to choose who to vote for.
5870	No political cohesion has so far come about, not even in the fight against organised crime, or in defence of the victims of genocide; we do not have a currency that is even remotely stable or an economy which really does combat unemployment and poverty; but it only took one minute of iconoclastic fury to destroy the Union' s credibility.
5871	Sanctions can be imposed after the Treaties have been violated, but cannot be applied if a democratically elected party enters government.
5872	Otherwise, how will we deal with Communist countries which return to Communism: will we throw them out of the Union too if Communists enter into government, or will Stalin' s grandchildren be forgiven for everything?
5873	(Applause from the right) It is via diplomacy, persuasion, knowledge, and solidarity, and not with threats or via anti-constitutional means that the institutions can ensure respect for themselves and for principles.
5874	Bilateral relations involve the States, so the 14 do not come into this.
5875	This is riding roughshod over the European institutions in order to defend political ways of thinking, with an incompetence worthy of parties which have just emerged from totalitarian regimes. It is not what you would expect of the representatives of democratic traditions.
5876	So many things set us apart from Mr Haider - as we have often written - including his claim to the completely Italian Alto Adige region. However, we already knew this.
5877	However, today we are concerned to learn that other representatives of the Union seem to have turned their backs on the Union' s democratic role.
5878	We support legality and democracy as expressed by the peoples, and favour upholding national sovereignty as long as this does not violate the principles of the Treaty or human rights.
5879	We believe in Europe, while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the Union.
5880	This is what has come of rushing headlong into enlargement and not clearly defining roles and tasks.
5881	We have built a Europe with an unstable market, not a Europe with principles, rights and politics.
5882	And these are the consequences!
5883	Therefore, we can but call on the Commission to continue to show restraint and praise those who are working to safeguard the independence and sovereignty of the Austrian people, thereby ensuring that this people retains its freedoms and maintains good relations with other peoples.
5884	Madam President, today we have an appointment with hypocrisy. Here we have a Council which has managed to flout the treaty and employ a method completely unrelated to Articles 6 and 7 which make it possible to condemn a State in the event of a serious and persistent breach.
5885	In the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach in Austria.
5886	There are risks, as we are all aware, but in the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach.
5887	If we were to apply the criteria of Articles 6 and 7 or the Copenhagen criteria to the European Union, then, most certainly, this European Union could not become a member, although the countries of Eastern Europe are required to meet them.
5888	And if we were to speak of serious and persistent breaches, then perhaps we could mention some Member States, such as Italy and France, first and third, respectively, in the list of countries condemned by the Council of Europe and the Strasbourg court.
5889	We could mention, my Belgian friends, Belgium and the Dutroux case, the dozens upon dozens of children kidnapped, tortured, raped and murdered by leading personalities in this country, where inquiries are bogged down, making no headway.
5890	We could, if one third of the Members of Parliament so requested, require that the Council and the Commission look into the matter.
5891	We could ask ourselves why the Austrians are rejecting 10 years, 13 years of party politics which has made one country - Austria - corrupt and rotten, just as it is now corrupting countries such as Italy, Belgium and other European Union Member States.
5892	We might well wonder why 76% of Belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56% of French citizens have no confidence in their country' s system of justice, and 53% of Italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in Italian justice...
5893	(The President cut the speaker off)
5894	Madame President, my group, the EDD, and especially my party, are very concerned by this debate.
5895	We cannot, and we do not, support in any way the sentiments and politics of Herr Haider and we deplore his references to the Third Reich.
5896	We also, however, deplore the fact that your Parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country, especially one which is part of the European Union.
5897	My party at home are certainly not racists, but we do not accept the rule or interference of the European Union very well.
5898	Are you going to interfere with Great Britain' s Parliament if we are elected?
5899	Madame President, the people of Austria have spoken by electing Herr Haider to their Parliament.
5900	I believe they gave him 28% of the vote so there is going to be a coalition government.
5901	Your Parliament, may I suggest, Madame President, should wait to see if the party of Haider has an effect on the policies of that country.
5902	Then, and only then, might you consider if human rights are affected.
5903	Your Parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then, Madame President and only then, may your Parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the European Union.
5904	Madam President, as a representative of the Freedom Party, I respect the concerns some of my fellow MEPs have with regard to the democratic developments in Austria.
5905	My reaction may come as a surprise when I say that I personally am at a loss as to the heightened sensitivity displayed towards Austria in matters of respect for human rights, having a sense of responsibility for one' s own past, and the stability of democracy.
5906	Austria must take the responsibility on its own shoulders for the often dubious image other countries tend to have of it, rightly or wrongly.
5907	The refusal of our government, down through the years, to acknowledge our complicity in the horrors of the Second World War, together with their refusal to properly compensate the Jewish victims and those forced into hard labour, have done a great deal to bolster this negative image.
5908	This FPÖ has now entered into a coalition with the ÖVP, due to the outcome of elections held on 3 October 1999, when the previous government was voted out of office.
5909	This is the citizen of a state' s prerogative, for it is the founding principle of a democracy.
5910	When the talks between the SPÖ and ÖVP broke down, the Socialists attempted to form a minority government and asked the FPÖ for their support.
5911	We were offered three ministerial posts - you can read it for yourself in the newspapers - the very party that is being denounced as fascistic here!
5912	When we suddenly refused this offer, an inflammatory and rabble-rousing propaganda campaign began that is beyond our comprehension to this day.
5913	The FPÖ party is established in Austria' s political landscape.
5914	The head of the government of one of the nine provinces belongs to this party and it is involved in all the other provincial governments.
5915	What many Austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind, and why the campaign did not begin until the Freedom Party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the SPÖ?
5916	There is prejudice at work here, which - without going into our programme - is reducing the darkest hour of European history to a political spectacle.
5917	I am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda, as, for example, the Italian MEP Bertinotti did yesterday on Italian TV when he accused Mr Haider of denying the holocaust.
5918	Shame on you Mr Bertinotti!
5919	You might have run out of political arguments but that does not give you the right to use those who were murdered as cheap propaganda.
5920	Denouncing a democratically elected politician as a Nazi does not make you an anti-fascist!
5921	On the contrary, you are deriding the true victims of National Socialism and playing down what the fascist dictators did.
5922	Your behaviour stems from your own prejudices, you are dispensing with any form of political debate and you are displaying precisely the kind of behaviour you claim to oppose.
5923	The attacks against Austria' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a Member State are an insult to the Austrian people.
5924	That is why we are indebted to the Commission for taking a stance that separates it from the rest.
5925	The new coalition agreement is about reforming a democracy, the rights of the opposition, commitment to compensating those forced into hard labour....
5926	(The President cut the speaker off)
5927	Madam President, to begin with, I would like to make one thing abundantly clear: Austria is not in danger of experiencing a resurgence of a one-party system or of a totalitarian system of right-wing persuasion.
5928	Austria is a stable democracy; one in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution and are afforded the protection of an independent judiciary.
5929	Austria is a cosmopolitan country and xenophobia and discrimination have no place there.
5930	There is nothing unusual about what is happening in Austria: there has been a changeover of power following democratic elections, in consequence of which an old system was voted out and a stable parliamentary majority prepared to carry out the necessary economic and social reforms was sought and found.
5931	There will be a functioning majority and likewise a functioning opposition.
5932	The Austrian People' s Party, which I represent here in this Parliament, used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the EU and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the European Union, and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement.
5933	We respect and accept the discussion that is taking place and also appreciate the concerns that are being voiced in many of our Member States as to the way ahead for Austria.
5934	Our understanding springs from the knowledge that our history of the recent past has bequeathed to us a political responsibility of special importance in the present.
5935	Our country was not just the first victim of the Hitler dictatorship, many people were perpetrators too, although I refute any suggestion of collective guilt.
5936	The ÖVP played no small part in helping Austria find its way into the European Union.
5937	My country' s place is not outside the European Union but in it ...
5938	..., with all the rights and commitments that this entails!
5939	Any future government must therefore be judged according to the values and principles it professes to in its manifesto, and not according to the prejudgements put about both by political adversaries and the international media.
5940	A declared belief in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, in an honest reappraisal of Austria' s role in the past, in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century, the holocaust, will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ÖVP and FPÖ.
5941	My party can be relied upon to see to it that my country holds firm to the course of European politics and continues to be rooted in the European community of values!
5942	(Applause)
5943	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Representatives of the Commission, it is a black day for Austria and for Europe.
5944	Not even Mr Sichrovsky' s web of lies or Mrs Stenzel' s words of appeasement can do anything to change that.
5945	For the day has dawned: two irresponsible politicians, consumed with a lust for power, are selling Austria' s image, political role, and to some extent even its economic interests, down the river!
5946	(Applause, heckling)
5947	They are trading this in for a head of government' s position and for membership of a government.
5948	They are just as prepared to take on board the fact that Austria will go from being a revered country to a reviled one, as they are its threatened isolation and thus to some extent that of its citizens.
5949	I believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against Haider and his brand of politics, and especially my colleagues in the Social Democratic delegation in this Chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community, insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives, are grave and also inappropriate.
5950	However, my criticism - and I freely admit this - my rage, is directed exclusively against those who have provoked these reactions and continue to do so, Messrs Schüssel and Haider and their parties, ...
5951	... and that includes their representatives in this Parliament.
5952	Mr Poettering, it is interesting to note that you are in almost as difficult a position as I am, albeit for different reasons, for you are having to defend something that goes against your convictions.
5953	You are having to defend a certain Mr Schüssel, you are having to consort with Schüssel as he is today and who, as I understand it, was recently told not to come to the representatives of the Christian Democratic party' s summit meeting.
5954	The argument that Mr Poettering himself used has come into play, i.e. that it would only be possible to deprive Haider of his mystique if he were to be integrated into the political system.
5955	However, in my view, he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this, into our political system, and into the Europe of today, than any other extreme right-wing movement.
5956	Anyone who feeds on prejudice towards foreigners and ethnic minorities and gives succour to these prejudices, whose programme features parochialism and anti-liberalism, who displays loutish behaviour and arrogance in their international relations, and who has never yet distanced themselves clearly and unequivocally from National Socialism, has neither the intention nor inclination to integrate!
5957	(Applause)
5958	This historic weight of guilt falls on the shoulders of the Conservatives for having consorted with the wolf of their own free will and waiting to be devoured.
5959	That is how the wolf - albeit on account of the self-sacrifice of the ÖVP - is sustained rather than kept in check.
5960	I understand that Europe and the civilised world wants to have as little as possible to do with such a government.
5961	However, by the same token, there is another Austria, the one where umpteen thousand people demonstrated against the FPÖ having any involvement in government, and who will continue to demonstrate against this government.
5962	I urge you to support this Europe and to support and help this Austria!
5963	(Applause)
5964	The more powerful this Europe becomes and the more vigilant it is towards authoritarian tendencies in the Europe of today, the more successful we will be in striking at the roots of right-wing extremism.
5965	For Europe is and will remain the most potent guarantee we have against xenophobia and demagogy, or even against a relapse into barbarism.
5966	Please support the Austrian people against this government!
5967	(Applause)
5968	Madam President, this is an historic moment, as it is now, at last, quite clear to us all that the European Union has gradually developed into a community of values.
5969	We see this, now that the government of one Member State is being joined by a party which, as is known, does not respect all these values.
5970	I would also like to say that the position of the fourteen states emanating from the Council was justified, as in a way this is also a matter of the composition of the government of the European Union, meaning this is also a matter for the Council and not merely an internal affair of Austria' s.
5971	As Members of Parliament, we must pay particular attention to the fact that the work begun to establish fundamental rights is more important than ever. It is more important than ever that respect for, and non-violation of, human values and the rights of minorities, including the rights of all those who live within the territory of the European Union, form an essential component in the rule of law principle of the EU, and, for this reason, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding.
5972	It must not be allowed to remain a mere declaration.
5973	As important is the fact that Austria' s forces of democracy should be given support, as none of us wishes to isolate the country.
5974	We know that most Austrians respect these values.
5975	They have also shown how they feel: not all the demonstrations have taken place outside Austria.
5976	Doubtless there are also a lot of protest voters on the scene that have wanted a change in Austrian policy for a long time.
5977	I believe Parliament should support these forces of democracy.
5978	I also appeal to the Austrian President, that he might yet look into all the possibilities for forming a government made up of democratic forces.
5979	Madam President, I would simply like to stress the value of the attitude that the leader of our group, Francis Wurtz, reminded us of just now.
5980	I welcome the statements by the Presidency of the Council and the position of the 14 countries which have rejected official contact with an Austrian Government that includes Jörg Haider' s party.
5981	The fact that we are stressing this is all the more important because, as you know, we essentially disagree with the policies made by Europe, with its economic and social policies, its democratic deficit and the Member States' involvement in the terrible war in the Balkans.
5982	Our normal disagreement further emphasises our appreciation today: this is extraordinary because the danger of a resurgence of an irrational, neo-nazi element in Europe is extraordinary.
5983	This danger does not concern Austria, it concerns Europe.
5984	We are talking about us, not Austria.
5985	We know the social causes which contribute, along with unemployment and instability, to fuelling tendencies towards this; we know the accompanying cultural causes - xenophobia, racism - but with the inability and unwillingness of these extreme right-wing groups to settle accounts with nazism, we cannot fail to point out the possibility of an explosive mixture being created in Europe.
5986	Not only the Alpine region, but all our countries are involved: the conditions are being created whereby democracy and European civilisation may once again come under threat.
5987	The position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation.
5988	Europe is showing that it has not forgotten Auschwitz; Europe is coming face to face with the suffering of the past.
5989	Now, though, it should follow through with its actions, and the first to follow through should be the Commission, which, however, has been obscure and weak on this, making the value of the presidency' s position even more apparent.
5990	This is the change we must impose on the Commission' s action.
5991	Madam President, despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples, which opposes fascism, nazism or communism, both new and old, and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the Austrian people, we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by Parliament.
5992	In the manifesto of the Austrian Democratic Freedom Party, there is nothing to justify the accusations that it is attacking the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms or the rule of law, enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaties.
5993	I would, however, like to draw your attention to the fact that the President-in-Office, who has been so critical of Austria, has recently consigned the inhabitants of Macao to the sovereign rule of the People' s Democratic Republic of China.
5994	Perhaps, in order to strengthen the Union' s democracy, it would now be appropriate to isolate Austria and criminalise a party that was democratically elected by the Austrian citizens, while bringing Turkey and its "Grey Wolves" into Europe.
5995	Madam President, we are debating an extremely serious issue.
5996	We are debating nothing less than the presence in a Member State' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the Union enshrined in its founding Treaties.
5997	A simple reading of chapter 4, article 1 of the Austrian Freedom Party' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder.
5998	The view that ethnicity is the defining factor of a nation and the claim that one ethnic group has superiority over others, as is written here, revives old ghosts of the century which we have just left behind, which some historians have described as the century of horrors; horrors which the unacceptable philosophy behind Mr Haider' s manifesto has stirred up once again, to our amazement.
5999	Of course Austria is a sovereign nation and of course we must respect the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
6000	However, that is not the problem.
6001	The question is whether the Union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a Member State which includes such a party.
6002	Our answer to this crucial question is no.
6003	Leaving aside strategic and tactical considerations, leaving aside possible exonerations based on other people' s behaviour and above and beyond party and electoral interests, the Spanish delegation of the People' s Group of this Parliament, in full agreement with the Spanish People' s Party and the Spanish Government, clearly expresses its full agreement with the statement of 31 January by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council. We agree with its substance, its tone and its scope.
6004	(Applause)
6005	Konrad Adenauer once said - and he knew what he was saying - that the surest way to pacify a tiger was to allow it to devour you.
6006	History is a compendium of events which could have been avoided.
6007	Therefore, Madam President, the Union and the Assembly must send an unequivocal message, rejecting of the tiger of intolerance, xenophobia and totalitarianism, so as not to add one more mistake to the long list of abdications, renunciations and opportunism which mark Europe' s past and for which we have paid such a heavy price.
6008	(Loud applause)
6009	Madam President, the European Union was built upon the idea 'never again' , meaning never again do we want to see xenophobia, concentration camps, anti-Semitism, heightened nationalism or war.
6010	The one and only significance of the European Union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grâce to any ideal of humanism within the heart of Europe, and which is still highly topical today.
6011	It is not true to say that, when a government forms an alliance with neo-Fascists somewhere in Europe, this is merely a question of national sovereignty.
6012	For this Union of ours is not a grouping of neighbouring nation states who are simply coming to mutual arrangements to improve their collective circumstances.
6013	It is a Community that is destined to exist, in which, when the main thing is under threat, when values are under threat, all democrats must bend over backwards to find solutions to ensure that the mistakes of the past are never made again.
6014	Let us learn the lessons of the past.
6015	In the thirties, when Adolf Hitler was democratically elected, although with a minority, many people thought that it was not as bad as all that and, Mr Poettering, in France, a number of men and women, on the right wing but perhaps of other political persuasions too, thought, 'Better Hitler in France than the Front Populaire.'
6016	They put their own petty squabbles first, and the rest is history.
6017	We must make a rapid, strong and united response.
6018	I would have liked to hear your discussion with the Austrian President, Mr Poettering. We are well aware that he is very embarrassed today at the dirty deal that government has done in forming such an alliance.
6019	So our response must be rapid and strong.
6020	Of course, the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable; I was almost going to say 'irreparable' .
6021	History has taught us that Fascists start to blow hot and cold: using heated words first, in populist, xenophobic speeches, and then cool words in order to make themselves acceptable to institutions and to infiltrate them gradually, poisoning them, until the day they start to take action.
6022	And when that day comes, it is too late.
6023	So our Treaty has made provision for barriers for the time when it is too late, but we are not at that point: today we have to take steps to ensure that we do not get to that point.
6024	We must therefore find a political solution.
6025	I support the Council proposals in this, while deploring a certain lack of strength, a certain spinelessness, on the part of the Commission which will, however, have to be vigilant on a day-by-day basis, with determination over time, since Fascists count on the spinelessness of democracy, they count on time to wear us down and they hope to impose their views in the end.
6026	Our response must be rapid.
6027	If today we do not staunchly support the Council, then history will judge us, saying that we achieved the political equivalent of the Munich Agreement.
6028	Madam President, I am pleased about the fact that, in Austria, the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes, in my eyes, a huge victory for democracy.
6029	Let there be no doubt about it: we decline with thanks a Europe which develops into a kind of "big brother" and which keeps watch over left-wing political correctness in one Member State or another in a Stalinist way and using Stalinist methods.
6030	European democracy and Austrian democracy should not receive any lessons from anybody and certainly not from a Belgian Government that embraces corrupt parties financed by arms dealers and that appointed the leader of such a corrupt party, which was condemned by the court, to the post of European Commissioner.
6031	Today, we thank the Austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within Europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech.
6032	Madam President, this debate was opened by Mr Da Costa, who merely confirms that the EU presidency is trying to influence the composition of a government of one of the Member States.
6033	This debate, and the background to it, reinforced the point that the Council, the Commission and this Parliament itself are dominated by Socialists.
6034	My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy, programme and tone of Austria' s Freedom Party.
6035	We share the widespread outrage at its attitude to history, in particular World War II, but also its policies on enlargement, on immigration, on race and its attitude to the European Union itself.
6036	We were also outraged, however, at the tolerance of the left for the tyranny, the terror and the excesses of the former USSR.
6037	Even today, surely it is high time for the Party of European Socialists to break their fraternal links with China' s Communist Party.
6038	Not a word was said by these same EU governments about coalition governments involving fellow-travelling communists in French or Italian governments, or in German state governments, or even the British government' s willingness to promote those with terrorist associations as ministers in Northern Ireland today.
6039	This, Madam President, is the hypocrisy of the left.
6040	So we condemn that hypocrisy and the double standards, especially of the British government and the other largely socialist heads of EU governments and include that of the United States.
6041	We should recognise, however, that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results.
6042	This requires action to address the underlying causes, including an examination of the electoral process itself.
6043	That should be our task, not political posturing.
6044	Madam President, Representative of the Council, Commissioner, a week ago, the big international Holocaust Conference ended in Stockholm.
6045	Its aim was to combat the forgetfulness and the evil in today' s society which takes the form of xenophobia and neo-nazism.
6046	It would be an insult to the idea behind this conference and to the whole of the international community to invite, at this time, into the institutions of the EU, a xenophobic party which flirts with Nazi ideas.
6047	Secondly, I want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations.
6048	We demand of the candidate States and of the countries with which the EU cooperates under the Lomé Agreement that they should respect human rights and show tolerance towards their neighbours.
6049	We must do the same as far as we ourselves are concerned.
6050	That is why we are reacting against this carry-on in Austria.
6051	It is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened.
6052	We are at a watershed in the history of the European Union.
6053	The Union is not only an economic community but also a community of values, something which we take seriously. Something has happened.
6054	The European Union is in the process of finding its soul and getting some steel in its spine.
6055	Madam President, as everyone has said, this is a very important day. It is the day of the first debate of European political life.
6056	And this is not pure chance.
6057	I feel that today' s meeting is not a meeting of Europe, our institutions, with Austria or Mr Haider' s party.
6058	It is the meeting of Europe with itself, with its raison d' être, with the reasons why we are here in this Chamber.
6059	This Chamber was not made for goods, it was not made for money.
6060	This Chamber, and the European institutions, were build to uphold values, morality and a certain spirit.
6061	In the twentieth century, we have had experience of the fact that democracies can find themselves at risk, and morality, values and the spirit which I mentioned can be mortally affected by viruses which have just one name: nationalist glorification, populism and the concept of racial superiority.
6062	The fact is that it is enough to read the manifesto of Mr Haider' s party, the FPÖ, to find nationalist glorification, populism and racial superiority in every chapter.
6063	Reading only one sentence which my friend, Mr Vidal-Quadras, has previously mentioned, "The nation is defined by its location, culture and race, locally, ethnically and culturally."
6064	Well, we cannot accept such statements.
6065	If Europe has any meaning, and - my friends will pardon me telling them - if Christian democracy has any meaning, if the history of Christian democracy has any meaning, then it must declare itself radically opposed to the statements made in this manifesto and, whatever excellent reasons are given whenever history serves the same dish up again, must reject any agreement with this type of ideology and this type of organisation.
6066	This is the reason why I feel that the European Parliament, which has more freedom of action and more freedom to speak than the Council or the Commission, must pay tribute to those people in the various States and European institutions who had the courage to say no, and it must say, Madam President, that you made a statement on our behalf which does us credit, and in clear terms declare, without prevarication, its opposition to and condemnation of imminent events in Austria, recalling the statement made on the day of the Munich Agreement by a great French Christian Democrat who said that, if you are going to have to say no, then the best time to do so is right at the beginning.
6067	(Applause)
6068	Madam President, we the Belgian Christian Democrats are concerned as, fortunately, are a great many other Members too.
6069	The coalition which is being created in one of the Member States is clearly an Austrian affair but undoubtedly has a European dimension too.
6070	Because what is it that unites us in Europe? Surely it is the values and principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, more than anything.
6071	The Austrian Freedom Party leader, Mr Haider, has repeatedly repudiated these values.
6072	He also repudiates the basic forms of diplomatic politeness.
6073	He is a dangerous man.
6074	The Christian Democratic parties in my country have made up their minds a long time ago and they stick to their decision to listen to the protests of extreme-right voters but never to negotiate with extreme-right leaders.
6075	Values should take precedence over power.
6076	We deplore, therefore, what is happening in Austria. In fact, we were shaken by it.
6077	We are extremely disappointed. As a last resort, we would ask the ÖVP to look into alternatives.
6078	We keep reminding them about Article 6 of the Treaty.
6079	We continue to fight against the trivialisation of the extreme right.
6080	If, despite this, the coalition goes ahead, we would urge the ÖVP party members to ensure that the principles and values which underlie European integration are observed in political programmes, both in word and deed.
6081	Madam President, Austria awaits a heavy responsibility.
6082	Madam President, it is clear that we in this Parliament are very largely agreed on rejecting Mr Haider and his politics, but it is equally clear that opinion differs as to the most effective way of opposing this brand of politics.
6083	Have you stopped to ask what kind of effect the debate we are having here and the statement delivered by the Council Presidency last weekend are having in Austria itself?
6084	Have you stopped to ask whether or not we will also be responsible for the way in which the political situation unfolds from now if we set ourselves up to pass judgement on it here?
6085	Have you stopped to ask what would happen if the wish of a certain fellow MEP was to be fulfilled and elections were to be held in Austria in the course of the next few days?
6086	From all accounts, this would only serve to strengthen Haider.
6087	Who would want this to happen?
6088	Is it not our responsibility to give thought to how we should tackle this brand of politics?
6089	Europe is a community of law.
6090	Democracy, respect for human rights and rule of law are amongst the principles that we must uphold.
6091	One of the precepts of democracy is that we should not disapprove of electoral outcomes but respect them, and that is why we must respect the fact that the Austrians, by virtue of their political culture, voted as they did.
6092	It is for reasons of constitutionality that the President-in-Office of the Council ought not to have made the statement he did, and in a manner that goes against the Treaty.
6093	It would be politically astute not to isolate the ÖVP but to support it as an undeniably democratic, constitutional and well-known European party, so as to be equally certain that Austria will continue to be a Member of this European Community, and that is why we must give the ÖVP our support in this difficult situation, and isolation would be altogether the wrong line to take!
6094	(Applause)
6095	Madam President, they say, where I come from, 'it' s three times for a Welshman' , and three times, as I think you will discover in the course of that debate, I signified my desire to respond very briefly to what has been an excellent, and on several occasions, a moving debate.
6096	First of all, could I express my thanks on behalf of President Prodi and my colleagues in the Commission for the support and understanding offered by several Members of the House to the position taken by the Commission in the statement that we made yesterday.
6097	I must respond also to the fact, of course, that there were references during the debate - and I use some of the words employed - to the ambiguity, the complacency and the fragility of the Commission' s opinion.
6098	I am duty- bound to say to this House, there is no ambiguity or fragility or complacency in the opinion offered, or indeed the action taken, by the Commission on this issue.
6099	We made explicit reference yesterday morning in our statement, as did the President this afternoon, to the fact that we share the concern demonstrated by fourteen Member States in their statement on Monday.
6100	Secondly, we said, in very specific terms, that we will work closely with all Member States in examining the situation as it develops in Austria.
6101	Thirdly, we expressed, in very explicit terms, that we will uphold without fear or favour the values and the provisions of Article 6 of the Treaty; and that we will take our part under Article 7 of the Treaty in ensuring that those values of liberty and democracy and fundamental freedoms are upheld.
6102	There is no complacency, no fragility and no ambiguity about any of that at all.
6103	And, when I say that the Commission took that view, I include my dear colleague Franz Fischler, who is from Austria; and who, once again, demonstrated his integrity and his independence as a Member of the European Commission, under oath, in being part of that statement that we made yesterday morning.
6104	Anyone, therefore, who invites Franz Fischler to his house to somehow account for the fact that his nationality is Austrian, should examine their own motives in the context of a debate, which has been necessarily shadowed by references to xenophobia and even more lethal evils in this world.
6105	I say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague, Franz Fischler.
6106	Could I also say, Madam President, that the understanding of the presidency, the Portuguese presidency, for our position, was absolutely demonstrated in the clearest terms by Mr Da Costa when he said, and I quote him, that 'Portugal and the other Member States want to ensure that the working of the Community machine is not affected by the current situation' .
6107	That surely is in everyone' s interests.
6108	In order to ensure that the Treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the Community machine, we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday.
6109	We will continue to do that, Madam President, without fear or favour.
6110	That is our duty.
6111	It is also a matter of conviction.
6112	My final point is this. We understand the context of this essential debate.
6113	There are several people here who like myself for many years past have become familiar with Herr Haider' s offensive statements, the xenophobia of many of his policy elements and the strategy that he has developed of alternating aggressive statements with apologies, sometimes on successive days.
6114	We understand that, and we recall too the sometimes short and selective memory that he has of Nazism.
6115	And, when we recall that, like many others on all sides of this House, my and my colleagues' instincts are naturally aroused.
6116	However, the Commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct.
6117	And that is why we came to the conclusion we reached yesterday morning.
6118	That is why we sustain that conclusion as we continue to uphold the values and the law.
6119	Without fragility, without complacency, without ambiguity, but in the service of the whole Union and every Member State of the Union and its people.
6120	We will continue to do that with energy and with consistency and as Mr Cox said in the debate, 'necessarily with acute vigilance' .
6121	I wonder, since Mr Da Costa has been listening to these remarks from the back of the Chamber, whether Mr Kinnock could confirm that the Commission supports the view explicitly stated by Mr Da Costa today and in the recent statement by the Presidency on behalf of the heads of government.
6122	Does the Commission support the Council?
6123	Madam President, when the Commission said yesterday morning that it notes the views expressed as a joint statement by fourteen Member States and shares the concern that gave rise to that view, I think it can be taken for granted that since yesterday morning, as soon as the Commission could discuss the issue, it has had a view consistent with that of fourteen of the Member States.
6124	Thank you, Commissioner Kinnock.
6125	I think that we have just had a great political debate, equal to the situation and to what could be expected of it.
6126	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
6127	The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
6128	The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
6129	Recourse to the precautionary principle
6130	The next item is the Commission statement on recourse to the precautionary principle.
6131	I want to start by saying that I am pleased to be presenting this communication on the use of the precautionary principle, and it has been written together with David Byrne and Erkki Liikanen.
6132	The precautionary principle is not a new concept.
6133	It has been used by the Community for some time now in a range of policy areas, environmental, human, animal and plant health; and it is explicitly mentioned in the environmental provisions of the EC Treaty since Maastricht.
6134	It also appears in a range of international texts, for example, the Rio Declaration and most recently the Bio-Safety Protocol.
6135	The essence of the precautionary principle is clear.
6136	It involves taking action in a given policy area when the science is not clear, but where there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potential risks are big enough to require action.
6137	However, the use of the precautionary principle has been increasingly in the spotlight in recent years.
6138	Events such as the BSE and dioxin crisis have stimulated a growing public debate about the circumstances in which precautionary action is justified and necessary.
6139	In view of this growing interest, the Commission therefore considered that it would be useful to present a communication to set out its position on the use of the precautionary principle.
6140	The basic aim of the communication is twofold.
6141	To explain in a clear and coherent way how the Commission applies, and intends to apply, the precautionary principle in its management of risk and to set out guidelines for its application based on reasoned and coherent principles.
6142	We also hope that the communication will help to build a better common understanding of how to manage risks and to dispel fears that the precautionary principle might be used in an arbitrary way or as a disguised form of trade protectionism.
6143	The Commission' s starting point in applying the precautionary principle is the need to ensure a high level of protection in the fields of environmental, human, animal and plant health.
6144	Of course, this objective cannot be used to justify irrational or arbitrary measures, but it does mean that action can still be taken even in situations where the science is unclear.
6145	As such, while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science, as some have alleged, it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics.
6146	The initial decision to apply the precautionary principle depends largely on the level of protection sought and the level of risk that decision-makers are prepared to accept for society.
6147	It is therefore political by nature.
6148	However, the measures that may subsequently be taken must obviously comply with the general principles applicable to risk management and the guidelines for applying the precautionary principle are therefore the key element of the paper.
6149	Measures taken must be proportional to the chosen level of protection - that is, we do not use the sledgehammer to crack a nut.
6150	They must be non-discriminatory in their application, that is measures should not differentiate on the basis of geographical origin.
6151	And they must be consistent with similar measures already taken.
6152	For example, if one product has been approved, similar products should also be approved.
6153	Measures are based on an examination of the potential benefits and costs of action or lack of action; that is, the measures should be cost-effective and subject to review in the light of new scientific data and be clear about who is responsible for producing the scientific evidence necessary for a more comprehensive risk assessment, that is the burden of proof.
6154	All these elements have to apply cumulatively.
6155	It is also important to bear in mind that there are a wide range of measures, which can be taken in applying the precautionary principle. For example, a research programme, public information campaigns, recommendations and so on.
6156	This communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue; however, it is the first time that the Commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use.
6157	By setting out in some detail how the Commission applies, and intends to apply, the precautionary principle, we hope to be able to clarify the situation at Community level and to contribute to the ongoing debate at European and international level.
6158	Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for your statement.
6159	I have three short questions, the first being as follows.
6160	We have been awaiting a common communication from the Commission on the precautionary principle for a very long time now and it was anything but clear in the past as to whether the Commission speaks with one voice.
6161	Does the document you have presented here today also accord with the opinion of your colleagues the Commissioners for Industry, Foreign Trade, Competition and the Internal Market?
6162	I am sure that your answer to this will be "yes" but I would be grateful if you could tell me if these gentlemen are also aware as to what the consequences of this will be?
6163	My next question, Mrs Wallström, is when will you begin to apply this principle to legislation; to legislation pertaining to chemicals or other sectors, for example?
6164	Lastly, will we be able to recognise when this principle has been applied in legislation?
6165	In other words, will each proposal contain an additional sheet stating that checks have been made as to the application of the precautionary principle and the following conclusion has been reached?
6166	. Thank you very much, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, for these questions.
6167	Of course, this is shared by the whole Commission.
6168	This is a common communication which was written by the three of us, David Byrne, Erkki Liikanen and myself, but it has been passed unanimously in the Commission today.
6169	It received strong support from the rest of the Commissioners and it has been through an interservice consultation in the whole of the Commission.
6170	So we have really worked through this document and I am sure that they are all able to describe the guidelines and the principles as laid down in this document.
6171	Yes, I would say we already use this way of working with different, difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example.
6172	And, I am sure that we will also mention it explicitly when we work with this principle.
6173	We have just recently had a case of using the precautionary principle when it came to ban phthalates in soft PVC toys; and of course, we apply it in several different environmental areas.
6174	It has been mainly used in the environmental field, but, of course also when it comes to human health.
6175	So, we will try to be very clear about how and when to use it.
6176	Mr President, Commissioner, regarding the relationship between science, on the one hand, and applying the precautionary principle on the other, the communication states that invoking that precautionary principle always requires a political decision if there is a lack of scientific evidence.
6177	Needless to say, this accords science a great deal of power.
6178	We might ask ourselves, what kind of scientists will supply this documentation and what do they stand for?
6179	The communication also states that the precautionary principle can be applied, provided there is a sufficient recognised minority of scientists. I would like to ask, what is, then, the definition of a recognised minority?
6180	How would you describe this?
6181	What establishes a recognised minority?
6182	If a political decision is involved, I would also like to ask: who takes this political decision?
6183	The Commission?
6184	The Council?
6185	And to what extent will the European Parliament be able to play a role in this?
6186	What is the role of the scientific committees?
6187	What, also, will be the role of the food authorities which you are about to set up?
6188	Finally, will this whole decision-making process be carried out in a transparent, public way?
6189	These are my three questions.
6190	. Yes, Mr President, that is true.
6191	There were many and difficult issues and not always crystal clear, but I will try to answer some questions.
6192	Who will take the decision, who are the decision-makers?
6193	Well, that depends on who the legislators are.
6194	This is part of risk management.
6195	They have to look at, for example, the concerns of people in relation to a special issue, and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case.
6196	However, it is true that it does not need a big majority of the scientific community to be able to use the precautionary principle.
6197	It can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete.
6198	That is, of course, where you strike a balance between this principle as a political tool and science.
6199	It is not always easy to describe exactly how this process is done, but there is no question of changing the scientific base.
6200	We use the experts to get as much scientific information and facts as possible before we take a decision; and that should also be done in the future.
6201	You have to see this as a tool for risk management.
6202	You have to decide whether you want to put people in danger, for example, or if you want to protect the environment; and you have to look at the science that is available.
6203	You have to assess all that and evaluate the science.
6204	Then you decide to take a measure or not, to take action or not.
6205	So, there is no answer to all your questions but this does not change the system of the scientists that we use today or the system of experts that we use today.
6206	Mr President, I have a question concerning an actual, concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle.
6207	It is about brominated flame retardants.
6208	It is a fact that these substances are now being discovered. There are increased concentrations of them in both people and the environment.
6209	There are many people who maintain that they entail major risks, while others question how large the risks involved in these substances really are.
6210	Recently, both Sweden and Denmark urged the Commission in the Council of Ministers to take the initiative and ban brominated flame retardants.
6211	I am wondering, therefore, if you are preparing such a ban and if it would not fit in very well with your approach to the precautionary principle itself to come up with such an initiative.
6212	.
6213	(SV) Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Sjöstedt, for this question.
6214	The issue of brominated flame retardants is an important one.
6215	It was raised quite recently in the Environment Council by a number of ministers who want the Commission to look at what basis there might be for a ban and at what might need to be done.
6216	We are in the process of looking into this question and assessing what knowledge we have today and what it is possible to do.
6217	Allow me to remind you, however, that use of the precautionary principle does not need to be synonymous with there being a total ban.
6218	There may be a series of different measures which can be taken.
6219	It ought not, therefore, to be immediately interpreted as a ban.
6220	Where brominated flame retardants are concerned, there may eventually be a ban, but it is important to say that the precautionary principle permits the whole spectrum of political measures and initiatives to be taken.
6221	This issue is extremely topical.
6222	The Commission is to do its job and give proper attention to the issue before we come back with an assessment of what needs to be done.
6223	You said that the precautionary principle should not be used as a disguised trade barrier.
6224	Is the understanding of this point the same on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean?
6225	I think we are going to have problems particularly with hormone-treated beef and genetically modified crops.
6226	Will the Americans take the same view of this point as we do?
6227	.
6228	(SV) Mr President, I am pleased to be able to tell you that, in Montreal, we have just signed a protocol concerning bio-safety.
6229	We succeeded there in agreeing, at an international forum, as to the definition of the precautionary principle.
6230	I consider it to be a breakthrough that we succeeded in concluding this protocol.
6231	I believe it will set the trend for future discussions concerning the precautionary principle. We are going to be able to use this as an example of how the precautionary principle is to be interpreted.
6232	It is, moreover, also accepted as an important and effective tool.
6233	Mr President, I have two questions.
6234	I shall try to be very brief indeed.
6235	The first question concerns the implementation of the precautionary principle.
6236	As I have understood it, there has been a certain lack of clarity in some respects as to how this is to be understood.
6237	Is it the case that a risk assessment is firstly to be carried out, including a cost-benefit analysis?
6238	In that case, I am rather concerned, because the idea was really that a cost-benefit analysis should not be used as a tool for deciding whether the precautionary principle should be introduced.
6239	Instead, the precautionary principle should come first.
6240	My second question concerns the burden of proof.
6241	I remember Margot Wallström being introduced as Commissioner in the Committee.
6242	At that time, she was talking about the desire for a reversed burden of proof. In other words, a product' s manufacturer is to demonstrate whether or not the product is hazardous.
6243	I want to know whether this also applies in the document which the Commission has presented now.
6244	. (SV) Thank you, Mrs Schörling.
6245	These are two important questions, and it is good that I should be given the opportunity to clarify them.
6246	No, one must not begin by carrying out a cost-benefit analysis. Instead, the latter should be based upon an assessment of what it is we know, of what science has to tell us and of how we should view the product concerned in the light of the risks we judge there to exist for the environment or for the health of human beings or animals.
6247	When, on the other hand, the decision has been made to take a certain measure, the one chosen ought to be cost-effective so that there is in fact no resort to measures which are wholly unreasonable given their degree of effectiveness.
6248	It is not, therefore, the case that one must begin with a cost-benefit analysis.
6249	The second question concerns the reversed burden of proof.
6250	It is perfectly correct that we need to apply this in certain cases.
6251	I have used chemical strategy as a good example of an area in which we need to do this.
6252	There, however, we are concerned with that particular area, whereas it may be said that the present communication concerning the precautionary principle is horizontal in the sense that it concerns the full range of specific technical areas that are of political concern.
6253	Therefore, the issues of the reversed burden of proof and of what the burden of proof is to look like are not especially discussed in this context. Instead, it is a question of political decision-making and of the bases for this.
6254	It is, however, perfectly correct that, when it comes, for example, to chemicals, we must ensure that we obtain a reversed burden of proof.
6255	Mr President, I believe that the precautionary principle needs to be quite radical in order to work, otherwise we shall always be confused by all the different interpretations possible.
6256	I will give an example: a fungicide has been proven to cause babies to be born blind. It is therefore a teratogenic substance.
6257	Very well, it is a fungicide, it kills off mould.
6258	This teratogenicity has been demonstrated by just one English laboratory, perhaps because it is the only one that has carried out tests.
6259	Now, in my opinion, given that this is such a serious risk to health, the precautionary principle lays down that this product should immediately be taken off the market, which New Zealand has done, for example.
6260	So I want to put this question to you. When human health is at stake, or there is the possibility that human health will be seriously affected, should we not perhaps carry out a cost-benefit analysis?
6261	The cost of a baby being born blind is too high; there are no benefits that can compensate for this.
6262	In short, Commissioner, I would therefore like to know whether in this case, the precautionary principle as you understand it, would in any case, require the product to be taken off the market, until such time as another laboratory provides evidence to the contrary.
6263	.
6264	(SV) Mr President, no one wants more than I do to see a situation in which we are able to apply the precautionary principle in such a way that it is seen as radically protecting people' s health and the environment.
6265	Obviously, I cannot adopt a stance on this special case and on the particular product which has been mentioned here, but I shall go directly back and see what I can obtain in the way of information about this particular case.
6266	The truth, of course, is that a great many Member States, and no doubt other nations too, have taken measures to protect their populations' health which amount to using the precautionary principle, even if it has not always been called that.
6267	Naturally, it is not in the first place a question of cost; there can in fact be an enormous cost to society if the decision to take a particular measure is avoided.
6268	Nor must it be a case of sitting and calculating the value of a human life over and against the cost of taking a particular measure.
6269	I think, however, it is quite obvious that when it is eventually time to decide upon a particular step to be taken, it is often the case that there are many different courses of action to choose between.
6270	In those circumstances, consideration should be given to what is likely to produce the best result.
6271	I cannot forbear telling you about an occasion when the expression cost-effective was used by people whom one cannot perhaps imagine using it, namely when I was on a visit to Africa.
6272	At a hospice for AIDS patients, I met two Irish Catholic nuns who were caring for dying AIDS patients.
6273	They were the first to say that, each day, they must think about doing what is most cost-effective because resources had to suffice for their poor patients there.
6274	We must be very careful about how we use resources.
6275	I believe we can learn something from this.
6276	We must, of course, always ensure that we use our resources in the most effective manner and in such a way that they provide the broadest possible help.
6277	As is also explained in the present communication, it is not therefore correct that one must first begin with some sort of cost-benefit analysis.
6278	Consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge, and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people' s health.
6279	Mr President, it is a rare honour to be given a second opportunity to ask questions!
6280	Commissioner, I would like to come back again to my first question, when I asked about the other Commissioners, for it may have sounded as though I was in jest.
6281	Indeed you responded in kind, as I knew you would do.
6282	I would like to draw your attention to something Mr Goodwill asked, that is to the connections we make between the precautionary principle and the world beyond the European Union.
6283	I have good reason for asking this.
6284	As you rightly said, the precautionary principle is needed in precisely those areas where, as yet, there is no scientific evidence.
6285	How can we ensure that we will not be laying ourselves open to attack at any time, for example by our partners in the USA, on account of the bio safety protocol not being adequate to their purposes?
6286	How can we be sure that those of your colleagues responsible for industrial policy and foreign trade policy, will not, as they did on the last few occasions with your predecessors, keep pulling the carpet from underneath you?
6287	That is exactly what it is all about, otherwise we might as well not bother talking about the precautionary principle here, Commissioner!
6288	Mr President, I think it is extremely important to point to the present communication' s guidelines for using the precautionary principle as a way of repudiating assertions to the effect that we always want to use the principle for protectionist reasons.
6289	I am certain that we are going to have more conflicts, for example with the United States.
6290	We should not be so naïve as to think otherwise.
6291	Ever since we signed this protocol in Montreal, we nonetheless have international recognition and a common definition written into a protocol dealing with the environment, health and trade.
6292	This constitutes a good example, therefore.
6293	We should be in no doubt that conflicts may arise in the future too, but we can now show that we do not use the precautionary principle arbitrarily.
6294	We now have a number of guidelines for using the precautionary principle, and we have increased support among our respective peoples for using it, something which is clearly established in the present communication.
6295	Thank you, Commissioner.
6296	The focus on the political precautionary principle means that we have being discussing it for almost two hours and this topic is now being viewed, so to speak, as more than an ordinary aspect of administration, even though, as we have been able to establish from the interventions, questions and replies, it is a topic which we believe to be of considerable importance.
6297	The debate is closed.
6298	Intergovernmental Conference
6299	The next item is the report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference [14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS)].
6300	Mr President, I will begin by thanking the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission for all our recent very useful contacts.
6301	Let me also once more thank my co-rapporteur Mr Leinen for our excellent collaboration.
6302	The Intergovernmental Conference that is about to begin is important, both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement.
6303	The work of the Conference will determine the structure and method based on which Europe will be functioning in the twentieth century.
6304	For the European Union of the future to be able to function more effectively, more democratically and with complete transparency, clearly what we need is an extensive and in-depth reform of the institutions and the way they work.
6305	The first and substantive prerequisite for achieving that reform is the agenda based on which the Intergovernmental Conference is to begin its work.
6306	From the decisions made at the Helsinki Summit, it emerges that the agenda agreed there is unsatisfactory and does not guarantee the essential and substantive changes required for creating a more functional Europe, one that is more effective, more democratic and more transparent.
6307	This is because the Helsinki agenda is limited to consideration only of the three issues that relate in a fragmentary way to the structure and operation of just two of the European Union' s institutional bodies.
6308	I will not repeat which ones, because everyone knows.
6309	My conclusion is justified on the one hand by the constant and sometimes very insistent demands of the peoples of Europe and on the other hand by the huge scale of the great enterprise in which the European Union is already involved, namely enlargement.
6310	Granted this, the new Intergovernmental Conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which, properly addressed, would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the European Union' s institutions.
6311	Just as it also must not fail to include everyday issues which, for that very reason, are highly visible to the European public.
6312	In its numerous debates and its reports so far the European Parliament has openly supported the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
6313	At the same time, however, I am asking for it to include issues that improve and complement the reform, I repeat, of all the institutional bodies as well as issues that are of direct concern and interest to the European public such as health, energy, culture, transport and even tourism.
6314	Whether or not the agenda will ultimately be widened is still the subject of debate and on this point I would like to extol the political conduct of the Portuguese Presidency, which has repeatedly made a commitment to the European Parliament to make the necessary efforts towards that end.
6315	All the same, whether or not more issues will be considered must in no way diminish the importance attributed by every Member State to the Intergovernmental Conference.
6316	This is because the institutional framework within which Europe will operate in the future is a foundation of European integration and is therefore a matter of the greatest national importance for every one of the Union' s Member States.
6317	In light of what I have said, I ask Parliament to approve the opinion which Mr Leinen and I have put before you, so that on 14 February, the work of the Intergovernmental Conference can begin and our two representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, can proceed with the difficult task that awaits them with the European Parliament' s backing.
6318	The same applies to the Commission and I would again like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his collaboration with the European Parliament and for the very constructive proposals he put before us.
6319	Mr President, the Group of the European People' s Party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the European Council in Helsinki.
6320	It seemed to us that the agenda lacked content, because our group was thinking in terms of the Treaty and, specifically, the protocol on the Union' s institutions.
6321	In Helsinki, the governments approved the idea that, as long as the European Union consists of fewer than 21 States, a minimal reform would be sufficient. With more than 21, a deeper reform would become necessary.
6322	The European Council in Helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new Member States.
6323	It is therefore inconsistent to open accession negotiations with 13 countries while contemplating a minimal reform.
6324	We are therefore thinking in terms of the Treaty and we want the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference to allow for a deeper reform of the Union.
6325	Having said this, Mr President, this Parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the Conference.
6326	In theory, we could have done so.
6327	We could have voted on the 17th of this month and the Conference would not have been able to start on the 14th.
6328	However, we did not want to do this because we wish to send a clear political signal to the governments and the candidate countries that we want this reform to take place, precisely in order to facilitate enlargement.
6329	Mr President, I am very happy to be able to say this to the Portuguese Presidency because it has earned great respect in this Assembly.
6330	The Portuguese Presidency shares many of this Parliament' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is widened to include other essential issues.
6331	Mr President, I would like to point out that this aspiration on the part of the European Parliament is not an aspiration to gain benefits for the European Parliament itself.
6332	However, the European Parliament will be reinforced politically by the Treaty resulting from this Intergovernmental Conference.
6333	This is for one very simple reason: according to the agreements made in Helsinki, this Intergovernmental Conference will lead to issues, which are currently decided unanimously, being decided by a qualified majority.
6334	Therefore, the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase.
6335	It is already established within the Community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with Parliament.
6336	Therefore, since the qualified majority will be extended, there will also be more codecision with Parliament.
6337	However, this Parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational European institution if it did not consider the political design of the Union.
6338	That it is what we are doing.
6339	We believe that, in the political design of the Union, other issues need to be dealt with.
6340	These include, amongst others, the incorporation into the Treaty of security and defence issues, which have made much progress recently, but which must be incorporated into the Treaty.
6341	Of course there is also the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and work began on its wording yesterday, which I believe has started very positively.
6342	We are going to work seriously to ensure that the Europeans come to see being European as an advantage and that European citizens have certain fundamental rights which are connected to the Union' s institutions.
6343	Therefore, Mr President, our proposals, which we will specify in another report, together with the proposals of the Commission, which has produced an excellent document - and I am happy to be able to say this here to Mr Barnier - are going to be used as conference documents.
6344	We will talk about this on another day.
6345	Today we must give the green light to this conference, and, for its part, the Group of the European People' s Party, Mr President, is ready to give that green light.
6346	Mr President, for the Socialist Group I can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the Constitutional Affairs Committee.
6347	We are giving a positive opinion on the convening of the IGC precisely because we have been impressed by the attitude of the Portuguese Presidency which has taken on board our request that the agenda of the IGC be widened.
6348	The Amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term, because they are very important subjects in themselves.
6349	Let us call them the first three subjects of the IGC.
6350	These first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our Member States during the last IGC.
6351	They did not quite reach a conclusion on them but they certainly do not need nine months of further study.
6352	They need a political deal.
6353	It is more a question of nine minutes, perhaps nine hours if it is difficult, locked away together in a room to reach a solution on these subjects, not nine months.
6354	In those circumstances it would be silly not to widen the agenda.
6355	There are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at, especially before such a large widening of the Union to so many new countries.
6356	Nobody is asking for a Christmas tree.
6357	Nobody is asking for an IGC of the Maastricht style with a hundred or more subjects being debated.
6358	However, there are six, seven, eight, nine perhaps, subjects which it would be very appropriate and useful to address.
6359	There is time.
6360	Remember the IGC that led to the Single European Act.
6361	It lasted only five months.
6362	The IGC that led to the enormous Maastricht Treaty lasted a year.
6363	Only the Amsterdam Treaty lasted a year and a half and that was because everyone knew you had to wait for the results of the British election if you were going to have any outcome from that IGC so that was a different reason.
6364	A year is ample time to address a large number of issues and it should certainly be enough to address the few crucial points that we wish to be added to the agenda.
6365	I am pleased to see that the Commission shares our view.
6366	The Commission has just published its opinion and it has done exactly what Parliament asked of it - to bring forward a comprehensive proposal complete with actual draft treaty articles.
6367	I thank the Commission for doing that even if, of course, I do not agree with everything the Commission said.
6368	I think there are some gaps in what they have put forward.
6369	Nonetheless the Commission has provided a service and I pay tribute to Commissioner Barnier who is here with us today for doing that.
6370	They have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this IGC.
6371	That is all to the good.
6372	The Parliament, the Council presidency and the Commission are pulling in the same direction for a wider agenda.
6373	I wish you every success, President of the Council, in making sure that the European Council agrees to this agenda and that on Valentine' s Day when you start off the IGC it will be under good auspices and you will bring it to a good conclusion, also when the French Presidency takes over, by the end of this year.
6374	We should no longer be worried that the agenda for the IGC will be restricted.
6375	That is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 Member States yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner.
6376	It makes it impossible for those same Member States, at the IGC, to fail to give operational meaning to the protection and advancement of fundamental rights.
6377	It is already strange within the convention that is drafting the charter to see representatives of some Member States, especially Britain and France, seeking to argue that a mandatory charter would somehow be an infringement of national sovereignty.
6378	It is vital that the IGC prepares the way to accept the installation of a fundamental rights regime within the Treaty.
6379	One part of this is to improve the access of the citizen to the Court.
6380	Another is for the Union itself to sign up to the European Convention.
6381	Another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside European Union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build European parliamentary democracy.
6382	My group strongly welcomes the IGC and will be contributing to this Treaty reform process to the maximum possible extent.
6383	Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the European Parliament' s decision to rush headlong into giving its opinion on the Intergovernmental Conference undermines the political significance of the request for talks with the Council, and in the end, makes it rather irrelevant.
6384	We would have preferred to have had greater clarification of the agenda and more guarantees on the method before giving our opinion, and frankly, we did not appreciate the discourtesy the Portuguese Presidency showed towards the European Parliament by scheduling the start of the Intergovernmental Conference for Saint Valentine' s day, the first day of the Strasbourg part-session.
6385	Moreover, given that this opinion is quite important, we can still vote for it, and indeed, the majority of our group will be voting for it.
6386	I nevertheless wish to stress the fact that it is quite distressing to see the lack of real interest in this reform.
6387	The events in Austria make it crystal clear that we need a body or structure for democracy in Europe and we need to establish principles which provide bases all the Member States.
6388	It is also distressing to think that the initiative taken against Austria is actually the result of an agreement between governments and that, in any case, the European Union and its institutions would not have had the means or the consensus to allow them to act, and to prevent and rectify the course of events.
6389	We must take action on this at the Intergovernmental Conference, and I firmly hope that this opinion, that was given reluctantly, will not mean that the European Parliament ceases to exert pressure on the Council and the Member States to make sure that this Intergovernmental Conference is not merely a technical exercise, but rouses the passions that we saw a few hours ago in Parliament.
6390	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, to my mind, it cannot be said often or loud enough that what the Council has adopted in the way of an agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is completely unacceptable politically and I would add that I consider it to be nothing short of disgraceful.
6391	After all, we find ourselves in a situation of historic importance, that is to say, we are negotiating or are on the point of taking up negotiations with 12 States, and together we have reached a stage at which closer European integration may be a reality in the not too distant future.
6392	How, though, is the Union to be enlarged if we do not do the job properly now, i.e. before enlargement takes place?
6393	That is why we as a group are in favour of the Intergovernmental Conference.
6394	We consider it to be indispensable and urgently needed and hope that it actually comes up with the goods that will enable us to carry out enlargement of the European Union in the not too distant future.
6395	My group, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, noted with satisfaction that the Council Presidency is far from happy with the current state of affairs.
6396	You can therefore rest assured that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is committed to seeing that the Union gets on with the tasks in hand.
6397	What we are talking about is nothing more and nothing less than the future of Europe, and, in particular, a Europe that the citizens truly regard as being theirs, because they are instrumental in shaping it and because the cares and concerns, the problems and issues they face on a daily basis are also taken seriously by politicians.
6398	The politics of closed doors and private discussions; all that must be consigned to the past once and for all.
6399	That is why we need transparency.
6400	I believe it falls to you, as President-in-Office of the Council, to see to it that the train does not keep rolling on as before, leaving the people behind on the platforms as if they were ignorant as to the content of the treaties.
6401	We believe it is imperative not just to make every available effort to provide the citizens with comprehensive information on how the Intergovernmental Conference is going, and its outcome, rather they must be directly involved in the overall reform process to a far greater extent.
6402	We also take the view that the political decision-makers must at long last change the habit of a life-time and ask the citizens in referenda, once the Intergovernmental Conference is over, whether or not they go along with the way in which Europe is to continue to develop in the future.
6403	In this way, Europe would truly belong to the citizens and the Union would acquire an entirely new quality of democratic legitimacy.
6404	There is another central issue relating to democracy that I would like to make clear reference to.
6405	As a member of the convention that has now taken up its work on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, I wish to make the following point clear: neither my group nor I are content with making a solemn announcement about the Charter.
6406	After all, what will the citizens say if we make a solemn announcement about rights to them but they are unable to take legal action in respect of these rights as individuals?
6407	No, to my mind this would only serve to deepen the credibility crisis facing the Union.
6408	The poor turnout at the European elections really should have been warning enough for everyone.
6409	What we need are visible rights for each and every citizen; the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding for all the citizens of the Union.
6410	Together we should work towards this goal in the interests of the citizens, and what I expect to come out of the Intergovernmental Conference is that the relevant Cologne decision will be revised here at the end of the year.
6411	Of course, we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a Union of 27 plus Member States.
6412	We will not achieve this just by undertaking a mini reform, as the Council has resolved to do, and that is why all institutions must come under scrutiny.
6413	We need bold change and, at the same time, we must take care to give the greatest possible attention to equal rights for the major and small States.
6414	This is something I would stress, particularly with my being an MEP for one of the major Member States.
6415	I would like to thank the Commission for the proposals they have put forward and I am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the European Parliament, on all the issues you have raised.
6416	There is one final issue I would like to raise.
6417	Parliament' s opinion expressly demands amendments to the Treaty in the area of economic policy.
6418	It is indeed the case that globalisation of national economies, but above all the introduction of the euro and the associated stability pact have led to a situation where we need to do more than analyse decision-making processes.
6419	What we need most of all is to have the courage to undertake a critical examination of the Union' s policies to date.
6420	It is all about creating a socially just Europe.
6421	A socially just Europe is still highly topical, for what we need to do as a matter of priority is place the fight against mass unemployment and poverty firmly at the centre of the Union' s policies.
6422	Hence, to my mind, that includes having the courage to amend Article 4 of the EC Treaty, which defines the Union in traditional neoliberal style as an open market economy with free competition. The same applies to Article 105, in my view, for the European Central Bank must at last be given the political task as enshrined in the Treaty, of using its monetary policy to promote sustained growth and employment.
6423	Mr President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group considers that the agenda for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, as set by the Helsinki Council, i.e. focussing strictly on the issue of decision making in an enlarged Europe, must be adhered to.
6424	It must be adhered to in the interests of the fast, effective work of the conference, prior to enlargement.
6425	This is why we cannot subscribe to either the opinion of the European Parliament or indeed to that of the Commission, which both wish to widen this agenda far too much and, what is more, widen it in the wrong direction, i.e. moving towards centralisation and an ever tighter European system.
6426	Our group has therefore tabled a raft of amendments which, when taken together, form a real alternative resolution.
6427	In them we say that the forthcoming IGC must look into a decision-making system that pays greater attention to national sovereignty.
6428	We deplore the fact that the Commission, in its opinion of 26 January, limits itself to following the routine path of a standardised Europe enlarging towards the East, a centralised superstate operating on the basis of majority decisions.
6429	The federalists imagine that they are thereby going to create unity through constraint, but this is a totally superficial concept.
6430	Quite the opposite, in an enlarged Europe, Mr President, the standardisation imposed by the improper use of majority decisions can lead only to the whole thing exploding.
6431	Furthermore, the centralised European system, as we can see it developing today and as we can foresee it by extrapolation, erodes nations and, in eroding nations, erodes the national patriotism which forms the basis of our will to defend ourselves.
6432	The Europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker, as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending.
6433	This is why we have always said that enlargement was possible only if the diversity and freedom of the peoples of Europe was clearly recognised, i.e. by adopting flexibility founded upon the respect of national sovereignty.
6434	We are delighted today to see the progress this idea has enjoyed in certain circles, one which are still, unfortunately, outside the European Parliament and the Commission.
6435	A flexible Europe, is a Europe which respects its national democracies, which relies on the support of its nations, its national patriotisms, instead of continually persecuting them.
6436	It is this that gives us the determination to defend ourselves against external threats, not the constraining, convoluted decision making procedures which the Commission thought it could propose at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
6437	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radicals and I would like to say to the President of the Council that he has seen what Parliament' s opinion is.
6438	It is no coincidence that the last intervention is the only one that was completely opposed to further European integration. I say this without being the slightest bit ironical about the highly respectable position of Mr Berthu and his group, but it is no coincidence that the European Council' s decision is supported by those who are, after all, in Parliament because - and this is a highly respectable position - they are fighting against further integration.
6439	This is the message that Parliament is sending to the Council.
6440	I hope that the Portuguese Presidency - and I add my compliments to those already offered - can convey Parliament' s message and convey the result of our mediation work on Saint Valentine' s day. In any case, tomorrow we shall vote against the IGC agenda.
6441	This message must be very clear; this is how we explain the way we shall vote tomorrow.
6442	We shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the IGC on 14 February, but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content.
6443	Just consider the facts: we looked at Austria a while ago, but we can also look at the stock markets, Mr President: given that the euro, that great undertaking, has fallen 16% against the dollar in a year, then perhaps, I will not say a government, but a good head of a family should ask himself whether one can conceivably tell the citizens that the only subjects open to negotiation are the number of Commissioners or similar issues.
6444	There is clearly a more ambitious goal.
6445	We Radicals have tabled amendments which we are submitting to the House in order to consolidate this text, and for example, to request - just for the sake of mentioning Articles 6 and 7 - that the very minimum be done, i.e., that the European Parliament should also be involved in drawing up the European Constitution and that a proposal be made for the European Parliament to adopt the amendments to the Treaty.
6446	We know that there are other topics: for example, many Members have subscribed, along with us, to the issue of the seat of the institutions, an issue that we believe should be considered at least at IGC level.
6447	In conclusion, I hope that the message that we give tomorrow will be strong and wide-ranging for once, so that thanks also to the efforts of the Portuguese Presidency, this agenda will be revised. Otherwise, the challenge really would be lost, not just for the present but also for many years to come.
6448	Mr President, the President of the Commission was not being quite honest when he talked last week about the Intergovernmental Conference.
6449	He said that there would always be unanimity on social questions but, in the Commission' s draft, plans are quite explicitly being made for majority decision-making on issues relating to social security and on taxes connected with the internal market. This means that it will be possible for major parts of the social systems in the Member States to be changed by a majority in Brussels, even if a unanimous French National Assembly, a British House of Commons and a Dutch Lower House should be against this.
6450	And, in this regard, you are going to the heart of democracy as it relates to distribution policy and people' s social conditions, which are what voters wish to influence when they go to the polls.
6451	These are matters which we ourselves shall no longer be able to decide upon as voters and no longer be able to change on election day.
6452	Brussels knows best.
6453	Mr Prodi also announced greater transparency, but his draft regulation signals a clear backward step, and that is not only my assessment, but also that of the European Ombudsman.
6454	Today, the Commission is obliged, on a case-by-case basis, to weigh considerations of confidentiality against people' s demands for, and expectation of, transparency and, if the Commission' s regulation is adopted, the Commission will be entitled to lock away whole categories of documents without having to give them specific consideration.
6455	There is also the desire to create a legal entitlement to confidentiality and to lock away documents of a kind which are at present publicly available in a range of Member States.
6456	Under the banner of "progress towards transparency" , a range of documents is being locked away from the general public.
6457	It is, of course, thoroughly Orwellian.
6458	I want to ask Mr Prodi never more to comment on a proposal here in the House which is not, at the same time, available for critical scrutiny by the public.
6459	Mr Prodi secured positive comments for a proposal which would otherwise have been met with criticism, for the new draft regulation presents as progress the fact that it will now be possible to grant right of access to documents in the Commission' s possession. There follows, however, a long, long list of exceptions, and there is legal entitlement to confidentiality in regard to those exceptions.
6460	The French text contains the word "refuse" and the English text the word "shall" , which means that the Commission is to keep secret such information as is today available to the public, for example in my own country.
6461	In addition, we have a flexible clause concerning the efficiency of the negotiations and of the institutions, which may be used for any purposes whatsoever. It is therefore ...
6462	(The President cut the speaker off)
6463	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Council Presidency' s account has given me the distinct impression that we are approaching this Intergovernmental Conference with well-considered ideas and a high degree of openness.
6464	We as a European Parliament will use these opportunities to see that our issues are given the attention they deserve.
6465	The preparations the Commission has made so far are on the right track, although they do not go far enough if the European Parliament' s motions are anything to go by.
6466	There is more to be said on that score.
6467	It is crucially important for this Intergovernmental Conference to score a hat trick; that of the power to act, democratic legitimacy and transparency.
6468	In the end, it is only by having these three things in place that we will be able to achieve acceptance amongst the citizens.
6469	At the same time of course, we need to create the power to act in order to facilitate the enlargement of the European Union.
6470	If we have been having a different debate here in this Chamber today then that only goes to show how important this is.
6471	The European Union must also have the power to act in the event of a government electing to impose a total blockade.
6472	This is an important sign that majority voting is a crucial pre-requisite to the European Union' s being able to function come what may.
6473	This is particularly important where enlargement is concerned, and legislation and in relation to treaties, which entail changes being made to legislation.
6474	Of course we also want to extend the European Parliament' s corresponding powers in this area.
6475	In addition, we as a European Parliament are going to have to take action in relation to Economic and Monetary Union, for there is a lack of supervision in this area.
6476	The Finance Ministers behave as if they were in an intergovernmental meeting, when in the Ecofin Council and in the Euro 11 Council, which is an unacceptable way to go on.
6477	Unlike Mrs Kaufmann, I am not in favour of extending supervision over the European Central Bank as I am an advocate of independence for the European Central Bank.
6478	However, there must be an appropriate level of supervision on the political side.
6479	Furthermore, the tripartite relationship of Commission, Council and Parliament must be restored to the sphere of foreign and security policy, where hitherto the Council was in sole charge far more than should have been the case, especially in relation to the crudely fashioned crisis management measures, for which the Commission alone has responsibility.
6480	The overall plan failed to do justice to any of this.
6481	We must examine whether any changes are needed to this end which would fall within the scope of the Intergovernmental Conference.
6482	The Portuguese Presidency has agreed to initiate deliberations on this matter, perhaps to extend the mandate.
6483	There is another point I would just like to draw your attention to.
6484	The debates we are having these days, on a certain European country' s government, for example, show, do they not, that we must place the spiritual, moral, constitutional, community and common welfare-orientated leanings of the European Union on a firm footing, and that legally binding fundamental rights must also be incorporated into the Treaty for the same reason, as this will be a crucial stabilising factor.
6485	I would urge those who are still very hesitant in this respect to consider whether now is not the time to make this connection and perhaps pluck up the courage we need to make suitable progress in matters of fundamental rights.
6486	The European Union needs few, if any, new instruments, and it does not need any new competences.
6487	What it does need are instruments that will enable it to put its competences into practice.
6488	For this reason, we must ensure that the instruments have the effect of enabling us to carry out, on behalf of the citizens, the tasks we have already formally been set in the Treaty.
6489	In my view, that is the most important issue this Intergovernmental Conference has to concentrate its energies on.
6490	If we succeed in making progress here, then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the European Union.
6491	This is the crux of the matter.
6492	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am confident that this will be tackled in a suitably positive manner under your tutelage.
6493	, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. (IT) Mr President-in-Office, on listening to the various interventions, you have understood that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also among the leaders of Parliament' s political groups, the decision prevailed - although not without some disagreement - to put our faith in the Portuguese Presidency, instead of creating more difficulties by postponing the start of the Intergovernmental Conference.
6494	I can assure you that it was not easy to achieve this, last week in the Committee I chair, but we eventually decided to back the Portuguese Presidency and we would like to win this wager.
6495	You spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries, and therefore in their parliaments.
6496	I would like you to bear in mind that yesterday we had a very worthwhile day of discussions and dialogue with the representatives of the 15 national parliaments, which were represented by competent and exacting delegations.
6497	The aim was not to draw conclusions - it was impossible to draw any - but the debate was certainly very encouraging.
6498	We need to be careful and be sure that national governments try to convince their respective parliaments to ratify solutions that correspond to the Union' s requirements for growth and that they do not hide behind supposed resistance put up by the parliaments to avoid signing appropriate conclusions at the Intergovernmental Conference table.
6499	However, we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the Intergovernmental Conference.
6500	Yesterday, we also discussed the Commission, represented by Commissioner Barnier, who gave its opinion. This effort was appreciated, even if different views were later expressed as regards the proposals, and moreover, Mr President-in-Office, you also expressed different views.
6501	Nevertheless, we must stress that many people are aware, as they were yesterday too, of the risk that enlargement could compromise the original plan for the construction of a political Europe, a risk that was, moreover, indicated in an interview that surely escaped no one' s attention, owing to the authority of the person being interviewed - Jacques Delors.
6502	We must, therefore, ensure that at the Intergovernmental Conference we discuss how to consolidate the democratic bases of the Union and how to strengthen - and this has been discussed in the House even today, with regard to the situation in Austria - the system of principles, values and rights underpinning the Union and the role of the political institutions of the Union, with regard, among other things, to running the economy.
6503	We are counting on the Portuguese Presidency, we are counting on ourselves and we are counting on the Commission so that we can hold constructive and decisive debates on all of this at the Intergovernmental Conference.
6504	Mr President, only a strengthened Europe can cope with enlargement.
6505	Only a strengthened Europe is immune to political opportunists who exploit dissatisfaction.
6506	That is why sweeping reforms are necessary and, hence, a widened IGC agenda.
6507	The Finnish Presidency only listened to minimalist governments and, unfortunately, turned a deaf ear to this Parliament.
6508	Portugal should not take a leaf out its predecessor' s book.
6509	It is of the utmost importance that the European Parliament and the Commission join forces for this IGC.
6510	In many ways, they share the same interests and the same insights.
6511	An essential component of this joint effort should, in any case, be this Parliament' s right of assent to the forthcoming changes to the Treaty.
6512	Of all priorities, this one is the most pressing.
6513	What is the Commission' s verdict on this?
6514	It also means that our Parliament President and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and, therefore, not only within the working party, but also at the same political level as the Commission.
6515	There is no reason whatsoever why representatives directly elected by citizens should be involved in talks at a lower level than the Commission.
6516	Not only do we owe the sweeping reforms to the new Member States, but we owe them to ourselves.
6517	If we allow Europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement, we will drown in our own political quagmire.
6518	Mr President, there are days when I really cannot understand this Parliament. It seems to take a masochistic pleasure in self-mutilation.
6519	After having restricted, on its own initiative, its participation in the IGC to two minor seats, Parliament is now giving up the right to add to the agenda for this IGC. The fact is, whether through weakness or foolishness - nothing to be proud of either way, you will admit - in rushing to give its opinion, Parliament is giving up the only lever which the Treaty accords it, i.e. demanding a complete IGC agenda as a prerequisite before declaring its opinion.
6520	Why do we have to vote on this opinion tomorrow, 3 February, as a matter of urgency, when we could wait, in a position of strength, until the opening of the Strasbourg part-session on 14 February, and thus force an agenda that is complete, and therefore consistent, on the Council.
6521	A good dose of hypocrisy is needed to overlook our weakness today. Hypocrisy to be regretted bitterly, in our resolution, that the agenda for the IGC is not equal to the issues, since in our haste, with blameworthy naivety, we are stopping ourselves forcing through this more ambitious agenda.
6522	If there is a democratic deficit at the end of this IGC, then I say that the political groups which so wanted this haste will be accountable for this.
6523	Whether we want it or not, since Parliament itself is going to extinguish the only spotlight capable of shedding a little light on the debates, the venue for decisions is now going to move to the 15 Member States of the Union.
6524	I therefore invite the Members of Parliament who form the great majority, those who last November ruled that the future of Europe was deserving of debates that went far wider than the Amsterdam leftovers, to take up their pilgrims' staffs and go and convince their own governments that this IGC must be extended, since this is permitted according to the resolution of the Helsinki Council.
6525	Because of the situation in Austria, this is a dark day for Europe.
6526	It makes us realise that the victory of democracy is never definitive, and that we have to work to convince and keep on convincing.
6527	In order to assert our fundamental values, they need to be laid down in writing, as a matter of urgency, and, beyond this IGC, I believe we owe Europe a constitution.
6528	Mr President, the draft resolution we are now discussing requires, precisely as before, that the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference should have a broad agenda involving radical reforms of the institutions.
6529	The forthcoming enlargement of the Union is used as an argument for this.
6530	I am convinced that this is an error of judgement.
6531	A federal and centralist EU which intervenes more and more in the government of the Member States is in actual fact less well placed for enlargement.
6532	A flexible EU which concentrates on fewer but important areas and which respects national differences and national democracy has a better chance of embracing a significantly greater number of countries.
6533	Paragraph D of the draft resolution requires a more coordinated and more open economic policy at EU level.
6534	It is not, however, possible to talk about this without at the same time talking about monetary union.
6535	This text says nothing about the major democratic and political problems involving monetary union and the European Central Bank. This is untenable.
6536	If there is a desire to make the EU more democratic, the whole construction of EMU must be reconsidered.
6537	The Central Bank must be placed under political control so that the direction to be taken by monetary policy may be governed by political objectives such as high employment and prosperity.
6538	Public control of the Central Bank must be improved if this is to become possible.
6539	The rigid and unsuccessful monetarism of the Stability Pact must be re-examined and discarded so that we might have a uniform policy which has prosperity as its primary objective.
6540	Article 56 of the Treaty, prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital, must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control.
6541	In the majority of EU countries, there are now governments dominated by social democrats.
6542	It is remarkable that, now they have the opportunity to do so, none of them is demanding any change in the direction taken by monetary union.
6543	It also, of course, damages credibility when it is stated that monetary union could constitute a counterbalance to globalised capital.
6544	The resolution requires the European Parliament to have increased influence over the Intergovernmental Conference.
6545	It is, however, important to emphasise that the Intergovernmental Conference is and will remain a conference of the Member States.
6546	It is the Member States' parliaments, or people voting in referenda, who are to direct the development of the Treaty.
6547	It is therefore out of the question that the European Parliament should be given any formal influence over the negotiation process or over ratification.
6548	Mr President, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed an essentially positive text, which I shall vote for, even if I personally had proposed a lot of amendments to broaden it.
6549	Nevertheless, the events of the last few days show that all those who had made basic criticisms of the way enlargement and the revision of the Treaties have been planned were right.
6550	The Union cannot be enlarged to 28 without addressing the matter of whether Europe has certain joint principles and values, whether it comes down to an economic free trade area, or whether, on the other hand, it has a greater ambition: the desire to be a supranational union, in ways that have yet to be defined, that wants to blaze a trail for civilisation and democracy in the world.
6551	This is what is and was meant by the call for a European Constitution.
6552	The amendment of the Treaties was, however, limited to a review of some internal rules, which was necessary and important, but did not answer the fundamental question: what is Europe, what are its common principles and therefore, its objectives and limitations?
6553	However, politics exacts its revenge, and having been thrown out of the window by a debate on a limited agenda, it comes back in, as a matter of fact, through a door, and through the front door in the case of Austria, since a party is entering the Austrian Government which seems to represent a return to intolerance, xenophobia and forms of racism.
6554	And it is not a question of links with the past; it is a question of prospects for the future, and nothing could be more wrong than the right and left taking a divided stand on this.
6555	I belong to a world, the world of Liberal Catholics, which is not left-wing but which holds as dear as anyone else the values of tolerance and common European values, and will have nothing to do with policies that reject these values.
6556	The Council has done well to lay open this subject to Europe and to the world and if we do not set down these values in a Charter of Fundamental Rights, in a European Constitution, then we shall construct a Europe without a solid, lasting base.
6557	Commissioner Barnier, I know - at least I think I know - that you and the representatives of the Portuguese Presidency share these values: make the most of the chances you were given by the December Conference to include these subjects and principles, because this is the only way we will build a lasting Europe.
6558	Mr President, I am in the happy position of being able to refer to a couple of striking contributions from a small group of Nordic sceptics and opponents of the drastic and growing integration process which, looked long and hard at, threatens the whole of democratic Europe.
6559	I am thinking of the contributions from Mr Bonde and Mr Sjöstedt who point out that the present contribution contains a string of relatively unconscious but undoubtedly rational initiatives dictated by the desire for power and pointing in the direction of a centralist and federalist EU.
6560	They rightly included the problem with monetary union and centralist government and presented a number of alternative democratic principles.
6561	I might add that all rational political campaigning in my own country, Denmark, takes it for granted that, when we enlarge the circle of EU countries to include the envisaged huge number of new Member States and when we in that way extend the breadth of the Union, we cannot at the same time pursue further integration in depth, that is to say engage in a more intensive qualitative integration towards a United States of Europe.
6562	However, that is precisely what is happening.
6563	With every single geographical extension to the area covered by the EU, we have seen how extensions in breadth have been followed by intensive extensions in depth, and that is precisely what the draft resolution from the Committee is contemplating, especially in paragraph 7 which says that there should be more thorough integration in depth.
6564	In the light of developments in recent days, it might well be asked what we really are to do about these intergovernmental conferences and treaty amendments when government leaders - in reality the European Council of Ministers - make decisions in relation to an independent Member State entailing intervention in that Member State' s democratic process.
6565	You can think what you like about Mr Haider, and I personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician, but you cannot just intervene in an independent and friendly country' s democratic process.
6566	When we hold intergovernmental conferences and consider changes to the Treaty, we must take into account the fact that the EU is developing all the time, sometimes in contravention of the Treaty, as we have just seen.
6567	I welcome Commissioner Barnier and the Portuguese Presidency here this afternoon.
6568	On 14 February, we will see the launch of the IGC which is to be completed by the end of 2000.
6569	This is a big task but it can be done.
6570	I think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the Helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare Europe for enlargement.
6571	In other words we need to go further than what has been referred to as the important "Amsterdam leftovers" .
6572	These include the extension of qualified voting - in my country we accept that but not to areas of taxation - the re-weighting of voting in Council to favour larger states and the number of Commissioners in an enlarged Europe.
6573	In relation to the latter point, Ireland wants to maintain the right to nominate a full and equal Member of the Commission irrespective of the number of Member States joining.
6574	We are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers, provided that the larger Member States are willing to agree to every Member State having a full and equal Member of the Commission.
6575	I feel I speak for many smaller countries when I make that particular point.
6576	At the IGC, we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the Treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the Constitution.
6577	We would accept the division of the Treaties providing it would not limit the control the smaller Member States had in the re-negotiation of the whole policy area of the Treaty.
6578	In other words, if we are not represented fully in the Commission we will not have an input into policy discussions.
6579	So we are watching that entire point extremely carefully.
6580	We look forward to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and to seeing its contents.
6581	The Treaty of Amsterdam, Mr President, has set the number of European Parliament Members at 700 and a debate is needed in this Parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged Europe.
6582	Mr President, I warmly recommend a vote in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen resolution, which clearly expresses both our disappointment at the inadequacy of the agenda and our wish that the Intergovernmental Conference should take place as soon as possible.
6583	In any case, this emerges from the favourable schedule we decided upon.
6584	I think that, under the present rules of the Treaties, the European Parliament would have little to gain from a policy of confrontation.
6585	On the contrary, we should concentrate on working out persuasive proposals on the necessary reforms, in collaboration with the Commission whose own proposals are worthy of note.
6586	We must use dialogue at every political level, including of course dialogue with the national parliaments.
6587	That way, we will create a climate of cooperation which will be positive for the quality of the reforms.
6588	Parliament' s representatives at the Intergovernmental Conference must make it clear to those with whom they will be negotiating that, with the Union' s institutional changes, we are faced with responsibility for the constitutional development of the Union.
6589	They must therefore realise that such issues cannot be decided on the rationale of bargaining alone.
6590	The issues to be dealt with at this Intergovernmental Conference are exceptionally sensitive.
6591	It may be easy to come up with solutions, but what matters is how well those solutions will stand up in the long term.
6592	I will mention two point that may create tension.
6593	One is the balance which has so far been maintained between large and small countries.
6594	Europe is not, nor can it become a classic federal state.
6595	The solutions we opt for must be consistent with the fundamental rationale of the European Union, which is a union of states and peoples.
6596	The other area of conflict is more difficult.
6597	Owing to the imminent increase in membership, the bodies of the future European Union must become more effective.
6598	This means that they must function more simply and more rapidly.
6599	By its very nature, however, the European Union is, and will remain, a complex and convoluted multi-governmental institution.
6600	Possibilities for faster and more simple operation do exist. Of course they do, but they are not unlimited.
6601	If the limits are exceeded because of a one-sided quest for effectiveness, then the legitimising basis of the European Union will suffer.
6602	I am, however, optimistic.
6603	Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference mandate needs to be widened.
6604	The most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the Union.
6605	It is unfortunate that there has been no serious consideration thus far here in Parliament of the issue of internal differentiation within the Union, which will, however, be necessary if the Union is to enlarge as planned.
6606	The Commission' s former president, Jacques Delors, has once again publicly raised the issue of a European Confederation. He has also said that the countries in the vanguard of integration should be able to proceed faster and that they should have their own institutions, for the sake of clarity.
6607	The Commission' s current President, Mr Prodi, and the High Representative, Mr Solana, have put forward ideas along the same lines.
6608	Last November, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party adopted a position on internal differentiation within the Union when it proposed a system of concentric rings for Europe: the onion skin model.
6609	In the next resolution on the IGC, Parliament must take a long and hard look at the questions of differentiation and flexibility.
6610	Both enlargement and the achievements of integration will come under threat unless we can create a system of concentric rings, as proposed by the Group of the European Liberal Democrats and Reform Party.
6611	My colleagues, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Onesta have already spoken, somewhat sceptically, about some aspects of the matter in hand.
6612	I wish to add a voice of concern on the topic of subsidiarity, not just between Union and Member States but between Member States and their own internally self-governing regions.
6613	This has been given inadequate attention and there are many things to be concerned about.
6614	May I particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this Parliament.
6615	A ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that Parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly.
6616	If you apply the existing principle of digressive proportionality, six seats for every state and then one more seat for every half a million inhabitants, you already have the situation where Luxembourg with 367,000 people has more Members in this Chamber than Wales, which is a partly self-governing region of the United Kingdom.
6617	Scotland, with a population of 5 million, has eight seats in this House at the moment; Denmark and Finland, with the same population, have sixteen.
6618	Now what is going to happen if we retain a ceiling of 700, bring in 26% more population over time, and then adopt the Commission' s, I think ill-considered, proposition, that there should be a European list of candidates.
6619	What will happen to a place like Scotland, which I represent here?
6620	It will become totally invisible!
6621	Members of this House should not in these circumstances be in the least surprised that in these discussions, people in Scotland and other such countries are asking whether enlargement should not also take the form of admitting new Member States from within existing ones.
6622	A growing body of opinion in Scotland holds that view.
6623	Mr President, to say that the European Union is at a crossroads is no doubt nothing new.
6624	It has been said many times.
6625	This time, however, it is true. We have established the single currency - which is extremely positive - and we are facing enlargement.
6626	The question is if we will undertake enlargement whether we are prepared or not.
6627	Will we enlarge with or without deep reform?
6628	That is the debate, and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference, its agenda or its method.
6629	It is clear that the Council, for the moment, has not opted for enlarging with deep reforms in place.
6630	That puts enlargement in danger.
6631	It jeopardises any prospect of political union and, of course, it is difficult for the public to understand.
6632	The Council must realise that, if we want the future of the European Union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations, the next Intergovernmental Conference must go much further.
6633	The Council is consulting us and Parliament is giving its opinion.
6634	We want an Intergovernmental Conference, but not this one.
6635	Must there be an IGC?
6636	Of course there must, but not this type of Intergovernmental Conference.
6637	The agenda must go much further.
6638	We must be much more daring with regard to the issues dealt with in the IGC and we must be much more transparent and much more democratic.
6639	Being much more democratic means greater participation by the European Parliament and allowing the Commission to exercise even more - yes, more - its ability to take the initiative.
6640	We must clearly set firm objectives.
6641	The functionalist approach is over, for better or for worse.
6642	The functionalist approach has brought us to this point.
6643	Have we achieved results?
6644	Yes, but the point is to make a qualitative leap and, speaking in political terms, this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, means convincing the other Community partners that to fall short would be the worst thing we could do at the moment.
6645	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, at this stage, following this debate which I have listened to most attentively and with great interest, I should like to make a few comments in addition to the guidelines and the statements which it has been my honour to present to you in the course of recent weeks in the company of President Prodi.
6646	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the report which they produced after extremely thorough and meticulous work, your two rapporteurs, Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, proposed that Parliament should adopt a formal opinion pursuant to Article 48 of the Treaty and thus, if this opinion were adopted, the Intergovernmental Conference could effectively start on 14 February, as suggested by the Portuguese Presidency.
6647	As far as we are concerned, after producing the opinion expected from the Commission, according to this same Article 48 of the Treaty, we are pleased that the conference can thus begin earlier than anticipated.
6648	We know, I know myself, that the weeks we have before us will be useful to us.
6649	I would just like to make a few comments, after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups.
6650	Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission understands the anxiety expressed by a number of you with regard to the scope of the conference agenda.
6651	I understand this anxiety, this fear that the agenda may be too limited, and yet I feel, as I said to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on returning from Helsinki, that we can work on the basis of this Helsinki mandate.
6652	Indeed, it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate, which the Commission framed for its own opinion, but using all the terms thereof, plus everything between the lines.
6653	We have not restricted ourselves to the three so-called leftovers, which is, in any case, an incorrect label.
6654	I do not like the term 'leftovers' any more than Richard Corbett does.
6655	It gives the impression that they are three minor or insignificant subjects whereas in fact they are three extremely serious and important subjects, and difficult, so difficult that we did not have sufficient political courage collectively at Amsterdam to deal with them in depth.
6656	As far as we are concerned - I am responding to Mr Seguro who expressed concerns about this just now - we have not restricted ourselves to these three subjects, even though I do consider them as priorities, and consider that they must be dealt with now.
6657	They are the first but they are not the only subjects, Mr Seguro, that the conference must deal with.
6658	We have dealt with other subjects and we have mentioned our idea that other subjects may be dealt with in this conference, if the Portuguese Presidency firstly, and then the French Presidency, so wish, in view of the serious nature of the present juncture prior to enlargement.
6659	We are ready for it, whether it is a matter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, on which work has started, the CFSP and the consequences for the institutions of the current defence policy negotiations, or an extremely difficult subject on which we are continuing to work: reorganisation of the Treaties.
6660	I have heard many comments on the Commission' s opinion, which mentioned all these subjects and dealt with many of them in depth, with specific indications of new draft articles, but no one has said that we were going beyond the Helsinki mandate.
6661	This proves that it is possible to go into issues in depth while respecting this mandate, by using the terms laid down in the mandate and all the openings which it offers.
6662	As regards the participation of the European Parliament in the conference proceedings, I think that Mr Seixas da Costa will agree with me, on the basis of our shared experience, in saying that you would be wrong to disregard the level of the reflection and negotiating group in which your two representatives, Professor Tsatsos and Mr Brok, are going to be working.
6663	Of course, the final trade-offs will be made, as in any institutional negotiations, and I think this is no bad thing, at Council level, especially at the level of the Council of Heads of State and Government, who hold the key to the success of this conference in their hands.
6664	Let me point out, in passing, that the Commission President, Mr Prodi, is also a Council member, and he has every intention of making use of this position and this role, alongside the Heads of State and Government, particularly during the final period.
6665	However, these Council proceedings must be carefully prepared.
6666	This preparatory work, this fine-tuning, must not be omitted, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I know from my own experience in Amsterdam that it is extremely important and useful, and that it will not just be limited to technical details.
6667	I think that all of us, the personal representatives of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, your two representatives, and myself, as a representative of the Commission, will be going into matters in detail, but it will be afterwards, at a different level, one in which we will also be participating, that the last trade-offs must be made.
6668	Throughout this conference, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the status of the negotiators which is important, but the quality of what they will be saying.
6669	And once again I should like to point out in this House, in view of my own experience prior to Amsterdam, that whatever the ambiguity or weakness of the status acknowledged to the two representatives of the European Parliament, prior to Amsterdam, the quality of what Mrs Guigou and Mr Brok said counted for a lot in these negotiations.
6670	I am sure that the situation will be just the same and, as far as I am concerned, in my current position, I shall ensure that the contributions of your two representatives are listened to and respected throughout these negotiations.
6671	I am sure that in this way the European Parliament will not be just an observer at these negotiations any more than the Commission will be.
6672	We now await, therefore, with great interest, ladies and gentlemen of the House, your next opinion, in which you will specify Parliament' s priorities and practical proposals for these negotiations.
6673	It is extremely important that the two European institutions involved in these negotiations, the Commission on the one hand and Parliament on the other, alongside the Council members, explain clearly to the citizens of the Union continually, every day, what the issues of this conference are and what responses we advocate in our capacity as European institutions responsible for ensuring both the proper operation of this enlarged Union and the common interest.
6674	In the coming months, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Commission will therefore be working in close cooperation, on good terms, with your two representatives, Professor Tsatsos and Mr Elmar Brok, in order to reconcile our points of view, if need be.
6675	Quite probably, our points of view and our positions will not always be the same.
6676	There will probably be differences of opinion, that would be only normal.
6677	The important thing is that we are consistent, and I have been committed to working towards this consistency ever since I accepted the position of Commissioner.
6678	Our concern and our ambition, therefore, on a large number of subjects, is to be on the same wavelength and to carry these negotiations forward successfully.
6679	This will not be a matter of chance, since, let me repeat, I feel we have the same ambitions for these negotiations and that together we see it as a moment of truth for the European Union.
6680	Finally, I should like to make three additional comments, quite briefly, Mr President.
6681	Firstly, to congratulate and thank Mr Napolitano, the chairman, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the extremely original major initiative which it took yesterday in bringing together the competent representatives of national parliaments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Commission for an initial joint debate.
6682	Such dialogue between the national parliaments, the European Parliament and ourselves is extremely important.
6683	I have said, furthermore, that I would play my part by visiting each of the national parliaments.
6684	Tomorrow, I shall be in London. In a fortnight' s time, I shall be in Berlin.
6685	In three weeks' time, I shall be in Paris, and I shall continue this dialogue in one capital after another.
6686	I feel this initiative you have taken is extremely positive, and I should like to thank you for taking it.
6687	My second brief comment is to thank the Portuguese Presidency, particularly Mr Seixas da Costa, for his proactive approach. Indeed, the comments which have just been made express a proactive attitude and a concern which match his own: the Portuguese Presidency cannot be just an interim presidency.
6688	It will have to initiate these negotiations.
6689	We are well aware that they cannot be completed within these six months and that it will have to hand over to the French Presidency, in the hope that a conclusion can be reached before the end of the year 2000. Not only that a conclusion can be reached, but that a successful conclusion can be reached, which is not necessarily the same thing.
6690	Concluding negotiations is not the same as concluding them successfully.
6691	The handover will have been made, but the conditions in which the handover is going to be made, by yourself, Mr President, and by the Portuguese Presidency, are going to be extremely important, as is the nature of this handover.
6692	It is all the work which is going to be carried out together, under your guidance particularly, in the course of these few months, which is extremely important.
6693	We have great confidence in the Portuguese Presidency' s ability to bring this task to a successful conclusion, and indeed great expectations thereof. Portugal is a small country, but being a small country is no reason why one may not have great ambitions.
6694	After having heard Prime Minister Guterres, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and yourself, I have confidence in the ambition of the Portuguese Presidency and the extremely proactive way in which it will conduct these negotiations.
6695	It can count on the partnership of the Commission over the next few months.
6696	Finally, let me repeat, we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations.
6697	These are difficult subjects, subjects relating to institutional policy and mechanisms which are not always easy to explain.
6698	All the more reason for Members of the European Parliament, Ministers, Commissioners to devote a little time to explaining matters to the citizens, to public debate.
6699	As far as the Commission is concerned, it will, ladies and gentlemen, be taking initiatives to inaugurate and orchestrate this public debate.
6700	Cross-border services
6701	- (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to apologise for being a little hoarse today, but we Austrian MEPs have had a lot of explaining and talking to do.
6702	I would first like to say how indebted I am to the Commission for seizing the initiative, and for the two draft directives we are discussing here today.
6703	It has thereby succeeded in closing two serious loopholes in the internal market which are of great significance to the European economy and to 5 million third-country nationals in the European Union who are here as workers or on a self-employed basis.
6704	The current state of play - and we would do well to remind ourselves of this again - is that there are in fact judgements from the European Court of Justice relating to employees, I refer in particular to those relating to the Rush Portuguesa case and that of van der Elst.
6705	These have, in fact, clarified that the freedom to provide services must allow for third-country nationals to be taken on as employees of cross-border services and this without having to obtain work permits.
6706	However, the European Court of Justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the Member States were unable to clarify this issue.
6707	Furthermore, not all Member States have abided by the Court of Justice' s verdicts with regards to the lapsing of the work permit requirement, and they still have a multiplicity of unacceptable barriers in place in respect of cross-border services; barriers that are often impossible to overcome, especially for the smaller companies.
6708	The situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current Community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services.
6709	There is no doubt that we need a legislative act here.
6710	Both draft directives seek to facilitate the freedom to provide services for EU enterprises.
6711	It is not about establishing original rights for third-country nationals modelled on freedom of movement.
6712	All provisions, i.e. issues relating to entry into the EU and to the law pertaining to residence rights, should be regarded as ancillary to this freedom to provide services.
6713	I, together with the European Parliament' s Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, are therefore of the opinion that the Commission has chosen the right legal bases and that the opposite view, as expressed in the report produced by the Council' s Legal Service, is inappropriate.
6714	Consequently, I do not see that there is any real obstacle to the Council' s being able to move matters on quickly as far as these two draft directives are concerned.
6715	I also believe that Parliament' s proposed amendments should make it easier for the Council to adopt the directives as opposed to the Commission' s proposal.
6716	Many of our amendments relate back to concerns that were also voiced in the Council, and we are attempting to reconcile these concerns with the task that falls to us by dint of extant law and economic good sense.
6717	When it comes to acceptance by the Council, I can only urge the Commission to adopt as many of the amendments adopted by Parliament as possible, even if some of them deviate substantially from the original Commission proposals.
6718	I am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the Council on this basis.
6719	Turning now to the most important of our proposed amendments, one of the essential differences is that, in place of a "service provision card plus notification for each individual contract" system, provision is no longer made for being able to request the previous notification from the receiving state for each individual contract.
6720	This system appears to us to be unsuitable in practical terms.
6721	However, in order to compensate for this, all possible obstacles must be removed before the service provision card is issued, and as the Commission' s proposal would have it, more stringent conditions must be satisfied before a service provision card is issued.
6722	An individual is required to be in authorised employment and to have the right of residence and insurance protection, not just at the time of issue of the card but throughout its period of validity and for three months thereafter.
6723	This should serve as a guarantee for the receiving state that the employee or self-employed person will return to the sending state once the contract is completed and that they will be covered under insurance law in the event of illness or accident.
6724	Likewise, the situation with regard to right of entry and residence rights should be clarified before the service provision card is issued, namely under the terms of an opposition procedure.
6725	What we are proposing is that it should not just be a case of having to apply for the EU service provision card for all Member States, rather one should also have the option of applying for it for individual Member States.
6726	I believe this system is also more suited to practical needs.
6727	I would hope that the same holds true for the proposal to reduce the minimum period of duration for a first posting to three months, and to be flexible in adapting the period of validity of the service provision card to the duration of the first posting.
6728	However, we stand by our view that the maximum period of validity for the service provision card should be 12 months.
6729	When it comes to self-employed persons, in addition to the amendments already described, we propose that the domicile criteria should be made more stringent, and that we should make provision for the possibility of countering any abuse in the way of bogus self-employment.
6730	I would also just like to go into those of the proposed amendments that go beyond the proposed amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
6731	Of course I would add that I continue to support this committee' s amendments, which they adopted unanimously.
6732	I have even submitted four amendments on behalf of my group that largely relate to the correct way of quoting Council decisions.
6733	I must say I have received extremely contradictory statements from Parliament' s services as to exactly how these Council decisions should be quoted; whether or not one should use the number or date alone, or both, and how extensively to quote from them.
6734	Two amendments were cancelled by the services because the content has supposedly already been given consideration to in the report.
6735	I withdraw the two other amendments - that is Amendment No 18 to the report on self-employed persons and Amendment No 21 on employed persons.
6736	I can only urge the Conference of Presidents to reach agreement as quickly as possible on the correct way to proceed in matters of comitology, i.e. the correct way to quote.
6737	This would make our rapporteur' s life considerably easier in the future.
6738	There is also a proposed amendment to both of Mrs De Palacio' s reports.
6739	Unfortunately I have to say that I am unable to support this proposed amendment because it in fact changes the substance of the outcome that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market resolved on unanimously, and I would like to stand by this outcome, which we arrived at together after lengthy discussions.
6740	On a final note, I would like to thank all those in the Committee who supported me in compiling these reports, which were far from easy to produce.
6741	I would like to single Mr Wieland out for special mention, for he has the dubious honour of being the shadow rapporteur and was involved to a far greater extent than is customary in the drawing up of this report, contributing excellent and constructive ideas; and this without being in a position to receive the plaudits awarded a rapporteur.
6742	That is why he deserves special mention!
6743	.
6744	(NL) Mr President, I am pleased I have been given the opportunity to make a few introductory remarks at the end of rapporteur Mrs Berger' s speech, after which I will, of course, listen with all due attention to the next speakers.
6745	If you allow me, Mr President, I would like to go into the different amendments in more detail at the end of the debate.
6746	May I say how the Commission welcomes the European Parliament' s support for the two proposals on the freedom to provide services and on third-country employees, the topic of the debate.
6747	I am extremely grateful for the work that Mrs Berger has put into these proposals which are politically sensitive and which constitute a legislative challenge.
6748	I would also thank Mrs Palacio most warmly for her major contribution as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
6749	The Commission particularly welcomes the suggestions made by Parliament for a more efficient procedure for the issue of service provision cards.
6750	If the opportunity is created to apply for service provision cards for one or more, or all, Member States, the procedure would be more flexible still.
6751	The Commission also supports the proposed flexible period of validity of the card.
6752	However, I do not consider a three-month period of employment to be sufficient to prove that an employee is resident in a Member State.
6753	The Commission also agrees with a provision for cases in which the contract of employment between the service provider and his employer is terminated at short notice.
6754	An efficient procedure for issuing cards implies that companies which provide cross-border services can also exercise their rights in concrete terms on the basis of the internal market.
6755	It seems over the top to us for other Member States to be given the option of systematically carrying out inspections systematically with a view to safeguarding public order before they issue cards.
6756	Indeed, it should be possible for a third-country subject who has legal status in a Member State to be admitted to other Member States too.
6757	That does not prevent these Member States from taking public-order measures within the framework of the proposed duty of notification.
6758	Neither does the Commission accept the proposal that legal status in a Member State should be valid three months after the card has expired.
6759	Following completion of the service, it is not acceptable for the third-country subject in question to remain any longer in the Member State in which the service is provided.
6760	That is why the Commission supports Mrs Palacio' s Amendment No 22 in both respects.
6761	As far as the second proposal is concerned, the Commission appreciates the wish that it should be clear what is meant by someone who is self-employed and would therefore like to resolve this issue in the amended proposal.
6762	These are a few introductory remarks concerning the key amendments.
6763	I hope that, at the end of the debate, when all the speakers have contributed, I will once again be given the opportunity to elaborate upon the different amendments.
6764	Mr President, tomorrow will see a large majority within the PPE Group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as well as the amended version.
6765	I propose to confine my comments to two areas.
6766	Firstly there is the question as to what this directive is actually designed to achieve, that is achieve in the real sense.
6767	There is the fact that we have to take the interests of the economy and also of the individual into account.
6768	My comments start from the premise that we are talking about an upright individual in gainful employment.
6769	Then there are the interests of the Member States, which, being on the receiving end, may have to start from the premise of a worst case scenario.
6770	If we are going to abide by the one extreme, that is the interests of the Member States, then we certainly have every reason to make the hurdles that have to be cleared in applying for this card relatively high.
6771	There is also an argument for introducing early notification obligations as well as having this card.
6772	If I were to go to the other extreme, as few hurdles as possible that is, then I would run the risk of failing to produce any legislation whatsoever in the course of this procedure because the Member States would not sign up to this directive.
6773	I would therefore end up with a situation where a directive on the service provision card might well be in place, but with the hurdles facing the business world being so high, in reality no one would apply for the card.
6774	Alternatively, I might have no directive at all.
6775	Neither outcome would be satisfactory.
6776	Perhaps this is also why, as is rumoured to be the case, the Council has become bogged down in its negotiations on this as well.
6777	We have been trying to reach a happy compromise between one interest - that of public order - and the other, that of finding the easiest possible solution.
6778	We want to arrive at a solution where certain hurdles are created vis-à-vis the business world, but once these have been overcome, implementation is as easy as it possibly could be.
6779	Therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more Member States.
6780	If a company in France says that it has an employee who has to work in Denmark on a permanent basis, and only in Denmark, then it certainly ought only to be possible to apply for this card for Denmark.
6781	Accordingly, the bureaucratic hurdles that have to be overcome would be lower in this instance.
6782	In return for this, however, we want early notification obligations to be discontinued, rather it should just be a matter of the employee taking the justification for the posting to the other Member State along with them, and this might take the form of the contract forming the basis for his/her posting.
6783	Consequently, I too have to say that I am in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
6784	Perhaps there was a certain amount of residual misunderstanding on the part of the Commission.
6785	We want to achieve a completely flexible solution.
6786	If a particular Member State was to declare that it had suddenly run into problems because the individual concerned had committed a theft and the card was for their country, then this particular Member State would be able to revoke this card, as it were, for the reasons cited in this directive, which is altogether a flexible and intelligent solution.
6787	Allow me just to go very briefly into a second matter.
6788	Most of those who have been working on the directive to date have been lawyers.
6789	We all know that there are still various parts of the Treaty, some of them very old, which are still referred to as EC.
6790	We are aware that this directive is founded on EC law and not on EU law.
6791	However, before the elections we - the Council, the Commission, Parliament, the press, unions and companies that is - worked towards making the Europe we have today more comprehensible to the citizens.
6792	We have expected the citizens to take on board the transition from EEC to EC to EU.
6793	They have now got to grips with "EU" .
6794	We would be doing neither ourselves nor the citizens any favours if we were to christen the product we are proposing to deliver "EC service provision card" and not "EU service provision card" .
6795	It is the world of the EU that the citizens are interested in, this is the one that counts in their eyes.
6796	I would urge the Council and the Commission to move in this direction.
6797	Mr President it is later than any of us thought it would be when we were planning for this session so I shall be very brief indeed.
6798	One of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this Parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism.
6799	This directive is, of course, not in itself directly about that.
6800	It is about attending to the needs of the internal market, creating flexibility and behaving in a reasonable and flexible way to enable the employment of third country persons both as employees and self-employed.
6801	That is in itself also about avoiding being unduly restrictive towards the stranger simply because he or she is a stranger.
6802	We welcome that, and because we think it makes a sensible and proper provision, we will support the most liberal version which we understand to be consistent with the law.
6803	Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to highlight the excellent work carried out by Mrs Berger and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market generally, which has incorporated innovative ideas into this directive, which I hope will be approved by the Commission and the Council.
6804	Nevertheless, I have tabled an amendment.
6805	Mrs Berger, in your Amendment No 2 to Recital 6, you mention legal security.
6806	The first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit, since all that does is create legal insecurity.
6807	You rightly raise the concern, also expressed by Mr Wieland, at the possibility of workers disappearing into thin air when their work permits expire, but I think that we would be making this even more likely by bringing in a three month permit.
6808	If the validity of the service provision card expires on a certain date, it must end on that date.
6809	Legal security requires this.
6810	On the other hand, with regard to point d of Amendment No 10, which refers to the first directive, you suggest that, for reasons of public security or public order regulations, a Member State may reject the validity of the card.
6811	There are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive.
6812	It makes no sense for any worker within the Schengen area, since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first Member State, and the second Member State would be justified in rejecting ex ante the entry of that worker into its territory.
6813	It therefore makes no sense to maintain that legal insecurity.
6814	In the case of a non-Schengen state, in the last paragraph of Amendment No 22, that possibility is contemplated, and is perfectly expressed, and I believe this provides greater legal security.
6815	The discretional power of the State, which you propose in point e of your Amendment No 10, seems to me to be inconsistent with the rest of your excellent report.
6816	I would therefore ask Members to examine my amendment carefully, and I hope that tomorrow we will achieve a result.
6817	On the face of it these two proposals appear to be implementing certain procedural changes to facilitate freedom of movement across Europe and to give effect to the recent court cases Mrs Berger referred to in her opening remarks.
6818	However, in the case of the United Kingdom, we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable.
6819	Partly this is substance and partly it is in respect of the legal base in regard to the special position of the United Kingdom.
6820	Under the arrangements contained in the Treaties, the United Kingdom retains its border controls.
6821	Under the system proposed in these pieces of legislation, third country nationals wishing to move to the UK under the procedures described, will do so by virtue of the service provision card issued by another Member State, thereby by-passing UK border controls.
6822	If there is to be a change to the present United Kingdom border arrangements, that change should be made by the United Kingdom Government and the United Kingdom Parliament and not en passant by the European legislative process.
6823	For that reason, we shall vote against both these proposals.
6824	Mr President, Commissioner, first and foremost I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur and to Mr Wieland for the efforts they have expended in summing up the various proposed amendments and interests in this report in such a balanced manner.
6825	These two proposals contribute considerably to the implementation of one of the four key principles of the internal market for the freedom to provide services.
6826	The new regulation for cross-border services will doubtless improve both the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness and power to act of enterprises.
6827	The strict basic conditions attached to the issue of the EU service provision card - and I am with Mr Wieland on this - are essential, for they will serve to prevent abuses such as illegal entry and bogus contracts.
6828	Why do I think we need the directive so much?
6829	Three reasons and they are as follows: on account of the economic importance of third-country workers in the EU, in the interests of the competitiveness of enterprises and the proper functioning of the internal market.
6830	Therefore, whilst I welcome the strict basic conditions, I would also call for the controls that are to be implemented by the Member States to be made as effective and simple as possible.
6831	My last question relates to something people constantly approach me about and is therefore addressed to the Commission. Will the directive prejudice the accession negotiations?
6832	How is Article 1 to be interpreted and explained in your view, as this will have important implications, notably for the accession negotiations and for our country, which shares common borders with so many applicant countries?
6833	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, businesspeople have so far had to live with the fact that two of the key freedoms, namely the free movement of people and services, did not apply to them.
6834	Indeed, they were still subject to endless bureaucratic immigration procedures of the Member States where a service had to be provided.
6835	There are approximately thirteen million third-country subjects who reside within European territory.
6836	I assume that, although the exact number of businesspeople included in this figure is not known, their number will most definitely not be low.
6837	So, up to now, their access to the entire territory of the Union has not been regulated by Community legislation.
6838	The aim of the two present proposals for a directive is to promote the free movement of services within the internal market by means of introducing the EU service provision card.
6839	It seems important, in this respect, to underline that the service provision card will be issued in a flexible manner, namely within five days of a simple declaration' s having been submitted to a Member State where the service will be provided; and that, also to prevent misuse, this document will have a restricted period of validity which will not be automatically extended.
6840	I have also paid close attention to the concerns raised by the Commissioner.
6841	Having also studied the amendments submitted, I concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow.
6842	May I, to finish off, thank Mrs Berger for the great care she has taken in studying the different amendments and for having, in that way, added an important degree of meaning to her report?
6843	I think that, with this report, we are, once again, one step closer to the realisation of the internal market.
6844	Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity you are giving me to go into the different amendments in more detail.
6845	In the course of my speech, I would also like to address Lord Inglewood regarding the remark he has just made.
6846	Regarding the first proposal on third-country employees, the Commission is prepared to adopt Amendments Nos 2, 11, 12, 15, 16 and 22.
6847	Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too, provided the situation of posting is established in the Member State in which the service provider is established.
6848	The Commission also agrees with Amendment No 11, except for the proposed period of previous employment of only three months, as I explained just now.
6849	We also welcome Amendment No 13 insofar as, as a result of this, the card' s area of applicability is extended from one Member State to all Member States.
6850	In terms of comitology, Amendments Nos 14 and 21 also apply in part, insofar as the rights of Parliament are concerned.
6851	I regret that the Commission has found Amendment No 10 to be unacceptable as far as the three-month period and the role of the Member State in which the service is provided are concerned.
6852	In this respect, the Commission supports Amendment No 22, as I have already mentioned. The other amendments are unacceptable.
6853	Personally, I am rather in favour of the term "EU service provision card" which is proposed in Amendment No 1, but the Treaty of Amsterdam does not allow this.
6854	As Amendment No 18 refers to Directive 96/71 concerning the minimum wage which is already in force, no change is necessary.
6855	Acceptance of Amendment No 17 by the Commission would mean that a simple duty of notification would apply if no valid card is issued.
6856	Surely this is contrary to interests of public order within the Member States.
6857	Amendment No 19 is also unacceptable, given my thoughts on Amendment No 10.
6858	The Commission has the same opinion of similar amendments to the second proposal.
6859	I would like to add that Amendment No 10 to that proposal is wholly acceptable.
6860	As far as Amendment No 15 on the definition of the term "self-employed" is concerned, the Commission will, as I have already remarked, provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged.
6861	I would now like to move on to Lord Inglewood' s remark.
6862	He referred to United Kingdom border controls and I would like to say to him that Member States, and this includes the United Kingdom, are under no obligation at all to abolish or change controls at the existing borders.
6863	This applies, as already stated, to the United Kingdom and it also applies to Belgium, where it was recently of relevance.
6864	With regard to the remark made by Mr Karas, I am under the impression that he is talking about the possibility of people from Poland being used as employees in his country.
6865	The Commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the European Union which employ staff from non-EU countries.
6866	The question is, furthermore, one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way.
6867	In my opinion, this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the European Union and perhaps not to the present debate.
6868	On behalf of the Commission, I would be more than happy to make myself available to Mr Karas in case he would like further information on this genuinely important point.
6869	I will keep myself free in this connection.
6870	Finally, I would like to thank Parliament for the very constructive debate on the key aspects of these proposals and, in particular, of course, the rapporteur, Mrs Berger.
6871	Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
6872	The debate is closed.
6873	The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
6874	Court of First Instance
6875	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a report, which, on reading it, gives the impression of simply confirming and accepting the Council' s draft decision.
6876	However, this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results, such as the incorporation into the Finnish Presidency' s document of 7 December 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation, composition and competences of the Community Courts.
6877	For this reason, I would like to express my appreciation for the work carried out by Vice-President Marinho.
6878	Mr President, the reform of the Community judicial system has become an essential requirement if, in the future, we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales, and if, in the future, the European Union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon.
6879	Today - and I must say this with pride and satisfaction - this Parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we Europeans believe that the European political project is much more than just an internal market, and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests.
6880	Behind these principles, Mr President, lies the justice system.
6881	However, justice delayed is justice denied, and we must reflect on this notion.
6882	The working document prepared by the Court itself contains alarming information.
6883	For this reason, the draft reform, which has been drawn up by the rapporteur, Vice-President Marinho, is to be welcomed.
6884	It is true that it is a stopgap solution, but we must rely on stopgap solutions because, at the moment - as he himself has pointed out - we cannot expect a broad reform of the system from the Intergovernmental Conference.
6885	We have to offer solutions which, while provisional, help to provide a faster and more effective system of justice.
6886	I would like to make two observations during this intervention, which stem from the report itself, given this Parliament' s obligation, in accordance with the Treaty, to produce a very succinct report, which does not go into depth.
6887	These are two of Vice-President Marinho' s ideas and, I believe, they are seconded by the whole of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
6888	The first is that greater resources should be given to judges of first instance, and that they should be given one more référendaire.
6889	The second is that the translation services of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice should be separated.
6890	At the moment, the Court of First Instance has to wait a very long time for its judgements to be translated.
6891	According to the Treaty, one of the founding principles of this Community is linguistic and cultural plurality and there is no question of our overlooking the possibility of something as important as being able to read a judgement in our own language.
6892	Since we are talking about the Intergovernmental Conference, let us consider just two points.
6893	The first concerns this Parliament.
6894	I believe that it is well worth insisting that we wish to participate more with regard to the Court of Justice, even in the appointment of judges.
6895	Above all, we wish to see an extension of the competences of the Court of Justice, hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations, in other words, its resources.
6896	We wish to see its competences extended, especially within Chapter IV of the Treaty of the European Community and with regard to Chapter VI of the Treaty on European Union and also a review of certain possible options, certain clear limitations of protection in these areas which are of extraordinary importance to our citizens.
6897	And I refer once again to the declarations which we have heard in recent days.
6898	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report.
6899	It has caused me to reflect on two problems which have come to me recently in my own constituency.
6900	Both concern cases with decisions pending before the Court of Justice.
6901	The first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to VAT.
6902	The decision could have huge implications for our local economy.
6903	Secondly there is a lady within thirteen weeks of retirement who is desperate for news of a decision that will affect seriously her financial circumstances in old age.
6904	These are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in Europe' s system of justice.
6905	Delays in justice can mean personal difficulties and even tragedy.
6906	This is not to say that all of our own national systems of justice are perfect, but all too often they may be waiting for a preliminary ruling from the European Court.
6907	Amongst the statistics there is a worrying upward trend in the time taken to deal with preliminary references.
6908	This should not be taken as a criticism of the Court or of its staff, rather of the Court' s structure and its lack of resources in a growing European Union.
6909	The proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative, but Europe is a legal construction, its courts are central to its proper functioning.
6910	In the face of coming enlargement the IGC must deal with fundamental reform and restructuring of the court system.
6911	Otherwise we will all, as elected representatives, be faced with more and more clamour from our citizens who are not getting access to quick and effective justice.
6912	Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report.
6913	I also fully endorse his findings, in which, in particular, he suggests increasing the number of consultants for judges at the Court of First Instance and providing the latter with its own translation service.
6914	In point of fact, I consider this to be necessary because we heard, following the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market' s visit to Luxembourg, that it is of course inevitable, a God-given fact as it were, that the Court of Justice should take precedence over the Court of First Instance when it comes to using the joint translation service, and so more often than not, important cases handled by the Court of First Instance cannot be given the attention they deserve.
6915	However I also believe that the reforms must go further than those we are to adopt here.
6916	For example, I believe it is worth considering making the Court of First Instance that of Last Instance, if applicable, and making this a final competence, in those spheres where benches of the Court, which resemble courts, pass judgement at a preliminary stage - I need only mention the keyword Alicante or whatever the plans are for European civil service law.
6917	I am also aware that we are probably also going to have to do something about the European Commission' s inclination to renationalise competition decisions and transfer them back to national level.
6918	It seems to me that we need to give this some thought, as these cases will no longer fall to the Court of First Instance of course but to the Court of Justice as draft decisions.
6919	We need to consider how we will deal with situations of this kind.
6920	Where possible, one should also have the opportunity to present draft decisions in competition cases to the specialist chamber within the Court of First Instance.
6921	In addition, we must consider whether it is right and proper - and we have already had cases in which MEPs, not to mention groups, lodged a complaint against the European Parliament - for the Court of First Instance to be responsible for such cases, when in fact matters of a constitutional nature are affected and it makes more sense for such matters to be brought before the Court of Justice than before the Court of First Instance.
6922	On a final note, I too believe that OLAF requires monitoring under rule of law.
6923	As things stand, OLAF is in a vacuum and can do as it pleases.
6924	It is essential for OLAF to be monitored by a court.
6925	The only court that could reasonably do so would be the Court of First Instance.
6926	That would be another way of spurring the reform process on.
6927	Mr President, I would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work.
6928	The European Union is a system based on law.
6929	It must therefore have a system of courts to enforce that law.
6930	Furthermore, if the courts cannot deal appropriately and expeditiously with the legal workload placed on them, what happens, as Madame Palacio Vallelersundi has already pointed out, is that justice delayed becomes, as we know, justice denied.
6931	The evidence of the court is that that is happening now and it points to steps which can be taken now to alleviate the problem.
6932	However, as Mr Marinho has pointed out, more is necessary, but that has to wait for the IGC,
6933	In my own country, mythology tells of the teeming hordes of faceless Brussels bureaucrats but it never mentions the number of European judges.
6934	There are less than three dozen at the apex of the European judicial order - hardly an overload given the responsibility of their tasks at the heart of the European legal system.
6935	The extent of their importance can be seen in the political implications of the delay in resolving the outstanding Anglo/French dispute over British beef which has caused such anger in my country and such frustration with the workings of the Union' s disputes resolution procedures.
6936	This has been compounded, so some who advise me believe, by the Rules of Procedure in the French courts which make it well nigh impossible for non-French nationals to proceed against the French Government.
6937	Certainly it is perceived de facto to be impossible.
6938	This contrasts most unfavourably with the United Kingdom courts where Spanish fishermen successfully brought an action against the United Kingdom Government in circumstances which were very comparable.
6939	What is happening in France, Mr President, appears prima facie to be a case of discrimination against other EU nationals on grounds of nationality and as such to be in breach of the Treaties.
6940	I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner, who was kind enough to make some comments about my remarks in the previous debate, to look into this and to report back to Parliament and to me their findings.
6941	I would be grateful if the Commissioner could confirm in his final remarks that he will do this.
6942	Mr President, on behalf of Commission President, Mr Prodi, I would like to respond as follows.
6943	The Commission has taken note of the position adopted today by the European Parliament regarding the request made by the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance. The purport of this request is, on the one hand, to transfer the assessment of certain appeals to the Court of First Instance, such appeals currently being within the exclusive scope of the Court of Justice and, on the other hand, to increase the number of judges at the Court of First Instance.
6944	May I add that, on behalf of the Commission, I listened with great interest to the pleas which have been made just now and that I have a great deal of sympathy for the unease which underlies these pleas.
6945	The unease is justified.
6946	It has been said more than once: justice delayed is justice denied.
6947	The Commission sympathises with these considerations. In the light of this sympathy, I would like to continue my response as follows.
6948	As your Parliament is aware, the Commission is convinced that, without fundamental reform, the Community judicial bodies run the risk - in the short term - of no longer being able to carry out their task within reasonable deadlines.
6949	Consequently, the Commission has asked for the advice of a group of experts regarding the entirety of the reforms which could be implemented in order to enable the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance to maintain the quality and coherence of their administration of justice in forthcoming decades.
6950	The Commission is aware of the request made by the Court of First Instance to increase its number of judges, but at the moment, the former is of the opinion that the proposed transfer of competence should be seen in the light of the study which I have just mentioned.
6951	In other words, once this study is complete, the Commission will issue its opinion as soon as possible.
6952	Thank you, Commissioner.
6953	The debate is closed.
6954	The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
6955	Exceptional financial aid to Kosovo
6956	The next item is the report (A5-0022/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision providing exceptional Community financial assistance to Kosovo (COM(99)0598 - C5-0045/00 - 1999/0240(CNS)).
6957	I have been informed that the rapporteur has been delayed for several minutes.
6958	I propose that we start the debate immediately.
6959	He will join us and speak as soon as he arrives.
6960	I therefore give the floor immediately to Mr Bourlanges, in his capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
6961	Mr President, this is an important and urgent matter, and Parliament is complying with a request from the Commission to come to a decision quickly, because today, you must realise, men and women are dying in Kosovo quite simply because the temperature is 25 degrees below zero, these people are doing a great deal of work to ensure a minimum of maintenance and they have not been paid.
6962	An urgent request has been referred to us, and we approve it.
6963	We have been asked for EUR 35 million.
6964	We agree that it may be granted and we call on the Commission to be extremely vigilant in ensuring, once the decision has been taken, that the amounts are set aside and paid as quickly as possible. We are talking about macrofinancial aid.
6965	There are reactions to this in some quarters since it does not comply with the liberal canons of beauty which stipulate that there must be no financial intervention in order support an administration.
6966	This is not our opinion.
6967	Our opinion is that it is vital to contribute to setting up an administration in Kosovo and that it is by no means absurd to contribute directly to the payment of public employees in this region.
6968	Indeed that is something extremely useful that we could have done in Russia throughout the 1990s to prevent the disintegration of that state.
6969	The second important problem is that we have been asked for payments, the donors have made commitments and, obviously, we are the only ones actually paying.
6970	The other parties are not paying.
6971	We wish to see an end to this one-sided situation regarding requests for financial aid.
6972	We would like the Commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this.
6973	We would like to link the granting of all aid to the availability of the amounts due from the other donors.
6974	This is not in order to limit or be stingy with our financial contribution to Kosovo but, quite the contrary, to ensure that our contribution is being matched by the contributions of other donors.
6975	From that point of view, the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest.
6976	Finally, we have three questions for the Commission in this regard. Firstly, we need the Commission to give us, on a regular basis, the list and the amounts that other donors contribute.
6977	When we come to pay, we want to know what the others are paying.
6978	Secondly, we wish to see an exact progress report on the invitations to tender and the schedule for their implementation.
6979	During the budgetary procedure we were told that the funds for Kosovo must be voted on as a matter of urgency yet, according to our information, no invitation to tender has been published or initiated to date.
6980	This is serious, since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in Kosovo.
6981	Finally, and this follows on from what I have just said, we would like the Commission to inform the Committee on Budgets on a very regular basis, monthly, regarding progress on payments made.
6982	We have Commission documents which speak of firm commitments.
6983	It is not firm commitments that we need, just plain commitments would suffice, and we need to know what has actually been paid and, more especially, what has not been paid.
6984	Kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment.
6985	Mr President, if we are going to discuss Kosovo today, as we have done many times before, then we should also start by taking stock of what has actually already been done in Kosovo, or of whether in fact anything has been done at all.
6986	What I mean to say is that a few small steps have already been made along the path to normality, and it would be nice if they could at least be listed in the course of such a debate.
6987	As of 9 February, there will be something known as the Kosovo Transitional Council, which will comprise representatives of the political parties, the minorities and civil society, and which is intended to be a quasi interim parliament.
6988	This is a positive move and we welcome it, but I believe we need to equip the individuals concerned with an instrument and with strategy planning for what they are actually going to have to prepare, for elections are planned for the autumn.
6989	No one really knows what these elections are to lead to and what kind of parliament is to be formed as a result.
6990	No one knows what kind of authority this parliament is going to have vis-à-vis UNMIK.
6991	In other words, there are quite a few imponderables that we are not being informed about and that others are presumably unable to get to grips with properly either.
6992	Of all people, it is the Albanians, who are now being integrated into the transitional council, who ought in fact to have a little more idea as to what is in store for them.
6993	In addition to financial outlay and reconstruction work, urgent attention must also be given to restoring the coexistence of Serbs, Albanians and other minorities - not forgetting the Roma of course - in this country, so that at some point in the near future, on the road to coexistence, it will hopefully be possible for some form of reconciliation to take place.
6994	I would like to list again the things that have actually already been accomplished and that we can be pleased about.
6995	Administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors.
6996	That is excellent news!
6997	There too, people are being encouraged to pay their taxes, for it will not do in the long-term for everyone just to depend on handouts from the EU and from other donors; some of the money for these activities must come from their own resources.
6998	It should also be noted that of the 19 departments, 4 already have administrative leadership, which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto.
6999	There is something else that we are keen to develop and this is very important for a state under the rule of law.
7000	We have 130 judges and public prosecutors, who have now been sworn in, and who are ready to take up their work of dispensing justice, with a view to enriching the culture of tolerance there a little, and to at least being able to track criminals down and then secure convictions.
7001	Another positive development I would like to remind you of is the fact that the old UCK is now bound up in the reconstruction of the country.
7002	I believe that is a good thing
7003	I wholly endorse what the Committee on Budgets had to say on financing and believe that we should remind the Commission that it really must press other donors to at long last pay their way.
7004	The EU Commission cannot pay for everything.
7005	It is responsible for reconstruction down there and for the Fourth Pillar, but it cannot constantly be called upon to pay Mr Kouchner' s outstanding bills.
7006	One could do so once or twice, but I feel that the UN donors should contribute to this as well, for there is a very large hole, as yet unfilled, that we are unable to fill.
7007	We have a huge task in reconstruction and we will be judged according to how we fulfil it.
7008	Mr President, I would like to offer a few explanations.
7009	In a debate, there is always the danger that we will repeat much of what has already been said.
7010	However, I would like to concentrate on two points.
7011	Firstly, I would like to make it very clear that the Union is the main contributor to aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo.
7012	I would like to point out to Mrs Albright that what we have read recently in the press is true, and that figures do not lie.
7013	Let us make this clear, however much some people may not wish to believe it.
7014	The Union has decided to assist with a further EUR 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, on the basis of an IMF report which estimates that a further EUR 115 million is needed for that reconstruction.
7015	I would like to say to Mrs Pack that I am in complete agreement with her when she says that the Commission should insist that other contributors fulfil their commitments.
7016	I would also like to express my concern - which is very considerable - at the statement by some Ministers at the last Ecofin that says that it should be a priority of the Portuguese Presidency not to alter, in any circumstances, the financial perspectives agreed in Berlin.
7017	This calls into question the agreement which Parliament reached, with great difficulty, with the Council in December, according to which, when the Commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction, the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary.
7018	I would like to appeal to those Ministers not to cast doubt upon that agreement which was really very difficult to reach.
7019	I would like to ask the Commission - and I am glad that Commissioner Solbes is here with us this evening - to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme, with the corresponding report, requested by Parliament, so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up, as we have been promised.
7020	Lastly, I would like to insist that, although we have agreed to EUR 35 million now, we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough, and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for Kosovo, which is so badly needed.
7021	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please excuse my late arrival, but this other political issue is still on the agenda today, more is the pity.
7022	The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy would advise you to release the EUR 35 million, and this piece of advice is given because this money can truly benefit those in need.
7023	The things that have given us cause for criticism are not so serious as to stop us wanting to help the people there.
7024	However, this does not mean that we will forget the criticism in the process.
7025	Of course we would be a lot further on in our procedure if the Council administration had not forgotten to inform the European Parliament in good time and to provide it with official documents.
7026	Only then would we have been able to conduct proper and searching discussions.
7027	I urge the administration to see to it that this does not happen in future.
7028	It is only because there are people in need that we are prepared to overlook this.
7029	However, we must be sure to introduce certain conditions here.
7030	One condition is that money should be given to those who will make sensible use of it and not to those who might use it for pursuing other aims. In other words, we should ensure that the money falls to Mr Kouchner' s sphere of competence and not to other spheres.
7031	Secondly, even if the Commission and the Council adopt a different position on this because they see real problems there, we believe that the other donors must also fulfil the obligations they have entered into.
7032	This mission is being conducted under the auspices of the United Nations and we cannot have a situation where the European Union is the only one to fulfil its obligations.
7033	It is no less incumbent on the other donor countries to fulfil their obligations within this timeframe, in the interests of the persons affected.
7034	This brings me onto the point that in future we are going to have to concern ourselves much more intensively with this issue in general terms, that is to say, not just with this specific project but with overall developments in south-east Europe, and with the aid delivered there.
7035	This is another example of the fact that the European Union is prepared to help and to give money but the political leadership lacks coherence.
7036	We have so many coordinators, who, in turn, are responsible to so many employers, that we will soon have to employ a coordinator for the coordinators.
7037	Perhaps it would be better, however, if the positions of responsibility within the European Union and the other institutions from the OSCE to the United Nations, were to get together some time to introduce a uniform, coordinated procedure and to examine how we can be of real assistance to the people there.
7038	I know that the Commission is thinking seriously about how to achieve this, but if the European Union is doing the most work out there, then it should also be given the leadership, and bring coherence to the situation, so that we can be of real assistance to the people.
7039	It makes no sense at all for the various international institutions and associations to be engaged in competition amongst themselves rather than investing all their energies in helping the people on the ground!
7040	Bearing in mind that the conference of donors for the stability pact is constantly being postponed - it is now set for the end of March - that no one knows which projects are actually in the pipeline, that one cannot tell how things can actually be implemented, and there is a steady stream of new press conferences, this does not appear to be the way to restore peace and reconciliation amongst peoples to this region of Europe!
7041	Accordingly, we would like to take this opportunity to urge the Commission and Council Presidency to seize this political initiative, so as to avoid us landing in such a desperate situation again and having to restore our solvency at the end of a month. Rather, we must use this initiative to establish a long-term aid strategy for this country, and I hope that in the process, you will fulfil your political obligations at long last and not allow things to continue as they have been doing for the past few months.
7042	Mr President, when the Alliance intervened in Kosovo its objective was to re-establish conditions in this province which would enable those who wished to do so to stay there or return, with respect for their own heritage and their own culture.
7043	If the Alliance is still active in that region, it is with the same objective.
7044	The day before yesterday I was pleased to hear an interview given by the KFOR commander showing how much better matters in connection with this in Kosovo were starting to be, particularly as regards security, crime levels had been restored to an acceptable level.
7045	Those representing Europe who are active at the grass roots level in pursuing this objective, and I am thinking in particular of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, are on the verge of despondency precisely because, since matters are improving, there is less talk of Kosovo and the urgent nature of the aid which is needed there is becoming less apparent.
7046	We must work to ensure that, in this province and indeed throughout the Balkans generally, the rule of shopkeepers follows the rule of the warlords.
7047	It is true that economic aid is, in this respect, certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level.
7048	Let me reiterate the comment which Doris Pack has just made and stress that we, the Members of the European Parliament, must fulfil our own obligations in this regard, while ensuring, of course, that we are not the only ones to do so.
7049	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Brok, for his report.
7050	If the Council had worked as quickly as Mr Brok then we would certainly be a great deal further on.
7051	The Council' s failings in this respect are a source of much regret.
7052	The rapporteur and the report are right to start from the premise that we should, and must, provide help swiftly, however it is also right to start from the premise that we will not provide help indefinitely or at random.
7053	I would particularly like to draw your attention to Amendment No 5 at this point, which clearly emphasises that it is only possible, and permissible, to use the funds from the special financial aid to finance those Kosovan budgetary requirements arising from public or semi-public, communal and other authorities and institutions, which are controlled either directly or indirectly by UNMIK.
7054	Commissioner, it must be made clear that we support UNMIK and the institutions set up by the United Nations, in particular Pillar 4 of course, and it will not do for us to support the parallel structures that have formed in Kosovo and are still in place.
7055	What is to be done with this money?
7056	I would like to highlight the issue of human rights.
7057	The West fought for human rights in Kosovo and what is happening there today?
7058	We were able to put a stop to the mass expulsion campaign carried out by the Serbs but almost every day insupportable things happen: people are killed, people are prevented from living there or are prevented from living their lives as they see fit.
7059	Every single day there are attacks on Serbs, on the Roma, on Bosnians, but attacks are also still carried out on Albanians.
7060	I was in fact shocked to read in the report, assuming this is true, how an Albanian doctor, who was working in the hospital in the Serbian quarter of Mitrovica under what must have been great difficulties, ultimately had to give up helping his kinsmen in this hospital because there were constant threats on his life.
7061	These are events and situations that cannot be tolerated.
7062	I hear - whether it is true or not I do not know - that the Serbs are even continuing to operate a mine in the Serbian sector of Kosovo.
7063	There are, at the very least, rumours that Serbian militias are up to their old tricks again.
7064	It is irrelevant, as far as I am concerned, as to whether it is Serbs, Roma, Bosnians or Albanians who are threatened or killed in Kosovo.
7065	It is also irrelevant, in my view, as to who is working towards separation and division in Kosovo.
7066	What is all-important, to my mind, is that the bodies we are financing should achieve what we want them to achieve, a multi-ethnic Kosovo that is, a Kosovo where people can live together.
7067	We need more police officers, as we have nowhere near enough.
7068	We need an independent judiciary - this would certainly be difficult to establish -, we also need funds for the office of High Commissioner for Human Rights.
7069	All of this needs to happen, and quickly too.
7070	If we do not provide rapid assistance then the situation will deteriorate and new conflicts and crisis situations may arise.
7071	That is why I believe that we were right to take action quickly, to recognise the urgency of the situation and make funds available.
7072	Only, now we want to see this translate into deeds and we also want to see success in Kosovo, and I would urge the Commission to see that these funds are put to good use, notably for building up the police force and for establishing the judiciary.
7073	.
7074	(ES) Mr President, I would like firstly to thank the Members, and especially the rapporteur, for the speed with which they have dealt with this issue.
7075	This will no doubt allow us to release the funds for Kosovo quickly and deal with the concerns which both Mr Swoboda and Mrs Pack have mentioned.
7076	I think I have seen three types of fundamental concern in tonight' s debate.
7077	Firstly, although much progress has been made, and we could mention customs administration, bank administration or tax administration, it is true that we must continue to move forward.
7078	However, in moving forward, what should we be financing?
7079	This is the first point on which there is a certain amount of disagreement.
7080	In some of your amendments you propose that we limit further the type of bodies which can be provided with Union funds, for example, Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
7081	In our view, however, in both respects, greater room for manoeuvre should be left to the administration of the United Nations which, on the ground, is more aware of the reality than we are.
7082	We believe that to prejudge, at the moment, where resources should be directed, would create more practical difficulties.
7083	In short, we should put our faith in those parties who, in these areas, are better equipped than us to make certain decisions.
7084	The second concern which I notice that many of you share - it was first expressed by Mr Bourlanges, but others have repeated it - refers to the situation regarding the other donors.
7085	Is the Commission making an excessive effort while others are failing to cooperate?
7086	Some of the amendments in your report pose this question.
7087	For example, Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 4.
7088	I would say to Mr Bourlanges and to those who have raised this issue, that this is not the fundamental problem, although we recognise it totally.
7089	The fundamental problem is that, at the moment, the distribution of the burden amongst the different donors has been established in the statements of the High Level Steering Group, but it is also true that they have no legal status. This is simply a political commitment.
7090	That is the reason why, while accepting its spirit, we would ask that Amendment No 1 be worded differently - and we have sent a note to Mr Brok in this respect - so that it does not imply conditionality in the provision of Community resources.
7091	I would say the same about Amendment No 2, which we would also accept with a slight modification, since the idea seems to us to be basically correct.
7092	Amendment No 4 is of a similar nature. On this specific point, we can perhaps offer Mr Bourlanges greater satisfaction.
7093	We have already spoken to the Council so that it might include a Commission statement in its decision, establishing this element of conditionality.
7094	With regard to the second contribution, what we propose is that the exact amount and the date for the implementation of the second stage should be decided in accordance with the external financial needs of Kosovo and the contributions of other bilateral donors.
7095	In other words, we should not establish conditionality, or we believe that it is more effective not to establish conditionality from the start, but, nevertheless, we should establish it with regard to the possible liberalisation of the second stage.
7096	In this way, we would have no problem in acting immediately. We would not create problems for the Kosovar people, but, on the other hand, we would force the other donors to make their financial contribution in the way that we are doing.
7097	A third problem has been raised by Mrs Dührkop with regard to the multiannual programmes.
7098	I would remind you that these projects are multiannual.
7099	The programmes clearly have to take the annual budgetary contributions into account.
7100	Lastly, I would like to make some observations on the requests for additional information which have been addressed to us.
7101	On the one hand, we have been asked to provide Parliament with information regarding the progress of invitations to tender and, in this respect, I can tell you that the Commission was last week able to provide Parliament' s Committee on Budgets with the latest statement of contracts and payments carried out since the task force was sent into action in Kosovo.
7102	The Commission can commit itself to regularly informing Parliament of the invitations to tender which are published.
7103	We also wish to see these publicised on the Internet, so that there may be maximum transparency with regard to this specific point.
7104	A second point which I would like to comment on is the remaining information which may be of importance to Parliament with regard to the provision of macroeconomic assistance.
7105	In this respect I would like to tell you that the Commission is prepared to keep the chairmen of the various committees involved in this area regularly informed, on a confidential basis, if the nature of the information provided requires confidentiality, on the different schemes being implemented for macroeconomic assistance.
7106	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that, with the final decision of the Council, we can release these funds and make a positive contribution to maintaining the considerable effort being made in Kosovo by different parties, so that we might achieve that situation of greater coexistence and peace which we all wish to see.
7107	Mr President, I am pleased to see the convergence of viewpoints there is between Parliament, particularly the Committee on Budgets, and the Commission, and we can assure you that, for our part, we shall always be there to assist the Commission in the performance of its duties.
7108	I do, however, have one small concern, when I hear the Commissioner on the subject of the commitments made by their services in the Committee on Budgets.
7109	There was a clear agreement, good or bad I will not say, but there was a contract. There was a clear understanding between the Commission services and the Committee on Budgets that there was agreement on Amendments 4 and 7, i.e. on the idea of linking the mobilisation, the implementation, of the second tranche of macrofinancial aid to the condition that donors should first have fulfilled their relative obligations in terms of payment.
7110	But, if I understand what Mr Solbes Mira says correctly, then this undertaking was only a tentative one.
7111	Commissioner, an agreement is an agreement.
7112	Can you confirm the agreement made by your services in the Committee on Budgets, yes or no? Or are you going to drop this proviso, thus breaking the undertaking made to us?
7113	No, Mr Bourlanges, I think it is a substantive problem.
7114	The problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted.
7115	What I proposed to you, and what I still say, is that the Commission will make a statement, in the Council Decision, something like this:
7116	The exact amount and timing of implementation of the second tranche will be decided in due course taking into account developments in Kosovo' s external financing needs and contributions from other bilateral donors.
7117	With this, we believe that we are totally in line with what we agreed.
7118	I am simply asking the Commission to come and inform the Committee on Budgets before implementing the second tranche.
7119	I agree, absolutely. We shall do so.
7120	The debate is closed.
7121	The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
7122	ALTENER
7123	The next item is the report (A5-0011/2000) by Mr Langen, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community - Altener (C5-0333/1999 - 1997/0370(COD))
7124	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Langen - although he is not actually here - for the work he has done to carry through the programme both in Parliament and in the Council.
7125	The project has been long and problematic.
7126	In future too, there will be a need to invest heavily in research into the use of renewable energy sources.
7127	Although there is much that is good about the new directive, it is nonetheless not without its defects.
7128	One example is the use of peat.
7129	Peat cannot be classified as belonging in the same group as fossil fuels.
7130	If peat cannot be classified directly as a renewable, non-fossil energy source, it must form its own class, especially as far as the issue of environmental taxation is concerned.
7131	It is not right that peat should be judged according to the same criteria as, for example, coal.
7132	The development of renewable energy sources is a partial solution to ending the Union' s dependence on imported energy.
7133	Research is particularly essential with regard also to the EU' s next round of enlargement.
7134	Dependence on imported energy affects worst of all many Eastern European countries, whose economic structure is still suffering from the dependence created in the times of the Soviet Union on Russian energy.
7135	The EU must adhere to the Kyoto Protocol on climate.
7136	We are all concerned about the environment and our children' s future.
7137	The share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased, but it has to be done in a rational manner.
7138	We have to remember that our basic energy production cannot be based on renewables for a long time to come.
7139	For that we need a form of energy production that does not harm the climate: nuclear energy.
7140	Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I welcome the fact that we have reached an end result in the conciliation procedure for the ALTENER II Programme.
7141	Firstly, however, I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Langen, for the truly excellent work he has done on this report.
7142	I would also like to thank the leader of the delegation in the Conciliation Committee, Mr Provan.
7143	For as Mr Langen said just now, we certainly had a tough fight on our hands in the Conciliation Committee.
7144	However, we can see today that the conciliation end result quite clearly bears the trademark of the European Parliament throughout.
7145	Mr Langen mentioned that a series of Parliament' s demands and points it had to make relating to content were adopted and - as has already been mentioned - we were almost able to meet the Council halfway on even the most contentious point, that of the financing for this multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community.
7146	This is not satisfactory - I would like to make that quite clear.
7147	However, we agreed to this compromise because it was important to us to enable this programme to be launched very soon indeed.
7148	For in the course of the next few years, the proportion of renewable energy sources is to double, accounting for at least 12% of energy consumption.
7149	This is the European Union' s declared aim.
7150	That being the case, since ALTENER is the only EU programme to have the exclusive aim of promoting renewable energy sources, it will certainly be have a key role.
7151	In the first place, this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the ALTENER I programme.
7152	This will include extending the exchange of information and expertise between operators in the renewable energy sources sector, developing local and regional energy agencies, and establishing new networks for approving financial support, to name but a few examples.
7153	To my mind though, what is particularly important about the ALTENER II programme are the new actions for relieving market saturation by renewable energies and those for implementing, supporting and monitoring the Community strategy and the Community action plan.
7154	We now have available to us a working paper from the Commission' s services on a breakthrough campaign, which is in fact a crucial element of this Community strategy.
7155	It contains plans for financial support for all the main renewable energy sources sectors.
7156	It is very important for this ALTENER programme to go hand in hand with this campaign and to support it.
7157	The overall investment costs for this campaign are estimated to be approximately EUR 30 billion.
7158	75%-80% of this is to come from private sources, and this will be supplemented by public funds from the Member States and from the regions.
7159	In this respect, the ALTENER programme will be able to create new incentives and smooth the way for investment, and help us to realise our ambition, in the interests of environmental protection, the economy and creating new jobs.
7160	Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mr Langen for his excellent work in this important matter.
7161	The conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the Altener programme as put forward by the Conciliation Committee is, after all the difficult phases it has been through, at least satisfactory.
7162	Most of Parliament' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to EUR 77 million must be seen as positive.
7163	The Union has ambitious goals with regard to increasing the use of renewable energy.
7164	There is very little in the way of appropriations to meet these targets, however.
7165	The appropriations are needed for pilot projects, research, information exchange and also to cultivate more positive attitudes towards the use of renewable energy.
7166	The main responsibility for increasing the use of renewables is to be borne by the Member States.
7167	This programme will hopefully encourage Member States to act with greater determination to increase the use of renewable energy.
7168	However, in the future, the Union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market.
7169	Promoting the use of renewables is especially important for the environment.
7170	The Union cannot achieve its environmental goals unless the use of renewables is actively stepped up.
7171	Renewable energy sources lower dependency on imported energy and their increased use boosts competitiveness.
7172	Europe will also be able to achieve a leading position in the industry that supplies equipment needed for the exploitation of renewable energy.
7173	We should also remember that the use of renewable energy sources has a positive impact on regional development and employment.
7174	May I also venture to raise the matter of peat?
7175	Peat is not mentioned in the list of renewable energy sources.
7176	However, it is important, at least in Finland, as a sustainably used, slowly renewable energy source.
7177	I hope that in the future it can be included in the list of renewables.
7178	Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are pleased with the agreement which has been found, and their thanks go to all those who negotiated so well in favour of an amendment which the Greens were almost the authors of.
7179	It is interesting for me, as a new Member of Parliament, to see that the budget provides for hundreds of millions of euros annually for tobacco cultivation.
7180	This is a limited sector of the economy which creates hardly any jobs and is not competitive on the world scale.
7181	In contrast with that, I see the amounts allocated for renewable energies, which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion.
7182	Seeing the market share that small countries such as Denmark have been capable of acquiring in this field, because they were the first ones to develop that area, gives one food for thought, I feel, and I think that in the long term it will ultimately be necessary to actually increase the budgets for renewable energies.
7183	One last word regarding the programme. I think it very important for renewable energies to be firmly established in the regions so that they can develop in the long term and so that they can contribute to the economy and to job creation there.
7184	In order to ensure that at least 50% of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources, it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term.
7185	Mr President, may I commence by complimenting Mr Langen on his work.
7186	The activities of the ALTENER programme will promote renewable energy sources and I believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future.
7187	For this reason, I am particularly pleased to see the monies focussed on projects by small and medium-sized enterprises.
7188	The internationally agreed objectives for reducing emissions cannot be achieved by these programmes alone. In this regard, it must be remembered that energy policy remains within the national remit.
7189	It is imperative that national governments lend their full support to improving energy efficiency and developing renewables.
7190	I am pleased that Ireland has recently announced that it is going to spend £125 million on the development of an environmentally sustainable energy sector.
7191	I would hope that the contribution of ALTENER would lead to more initiatives.
7192	As the final text rightly states, actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities.
7193	I can vouch that I have already received significant interest in the ALTENER programme from my own constituency of Leinster, a significant portion of which falls within Ireland' s only Objective I region.
7194	I support all efforts to close the gap in economic development in infrastructural provisions, including the energy sector.
7195	In short, we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto Protocol, while at the same time promoting growth in our economies.
7196	ALTENER will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the Member States.
7197	Mr President, Mr Langen, ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur mentioned, we are coming to the end of a long and difficult process of conciliation with the Council on the ALTENER programme.
7198	Mr Langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the Council was initially FF 74 million, whereas the Commission proposed 81.1 million, a figure which the European Parliament supported.
7199	An initial conciliation meeting was not successful, because the Council would not at that time accept an increase of EUR 1.9 million.
7200	We could not agree with a proposal like this, which challenged the authority of the European Parliament.
7201	A second round of conciliation achieved an increase of EUR 1.1 million in order to reach this compromise figure of 77 million.
7202	In spite of an increase of 3 million in relation to the initial proposal, personally, once again I deplore the fact that the funds allocated do not match up to the ambitions expressed and that the concern to save money displayed by the Council in this situation is in rude contrast to its declarations in favour of the safety of the energy supply, job creation and environmental protection, challenges that are just as significant which we must face up to.
7203	In fact, renewable energies unquestionably provide a way of achieving these objectives.
7204	However, in spite of the reservations I am expressing on the paucity of the financial allocation, I personally support the compromise, by virtue of the programme' s content, to which the European Parliament made an active contribution as, following the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, this sector become subject to codecision.
7205	It is practically certain that, with the raft of proposed measures and actions, it should be possible to approach the objective of a 12% renewable energy share by 2010, doubling the current rate, as long as the appropriations including state appropriations are made available.
7206	This programme, together with the SAVE II programme, integrating the environmental aspect into energy policy, establishes a foundation for a real Community strategy to achieve clean energy while reducing our dependence.
7207	And, in conclusion, Mr President, let me also insist upon the fact that, in addition to the measures proposed, there are also legislative measures and, most especially, adequate budget allocations to back up these political initiatives.
7208	And I shall end, of course, by congratulating Mr Langen, our rapporteur, on his work, as well as all the members of the committee and of the Conciliation Committee.
7209	.
7210	(ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I wish to express my satisfaction with the agreement reached on the ALTENER II programme in the Conciliation Committee and associate myself with the comments of the different speakers and, of course, point out that this agreement will allow the ALTENER programme to be incorporated soon into the framework energy programme.
7211	All of this will provide greater coordination, transparency and efficiency in our energy programmes, into which we will also have to incorporate the SAVE programme, which we will be discussing soon.
7212	I would like to say that the work carried out during this time by Parliament has been of a high quality, and I therefore congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Langen and also all the various speakers who have spoken both in committee and here in plenary.
7213	Obviously, there have been arguments, we had to go to conciliation, as the rapporteur and Mr Caudron reminded us a moment ago, since at the first meeting no result was achieved, and there had to be a second meeting, despite the fact that the figures were not excessive.
7214	However, I believe that in the end we have reached a reasonable agreement, which, like all agreements, is perhaps not perfect, but which, I believe, allows us to push ahead with the projects with which we were dealing.
7215	I would therefore like once again to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Langen, on his work, to thank the speakers and, of course, to acknowledge the actions of Vice-President Provan throughout the conciliation procedure, who contributed efficiently to the achievement of a positive result.
7216	I would also like to recognise the reasonable and flexible action of the Council.
7217	SAVE
7218	The next item is the report (A5-0010/2000) by Mrs Ahern, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency - SAVE (C5-0334/1999 - 1997/0371(COD)).
7219	Madam President, I would like to thank the Council and Commission for a useful and thorough conciliation procedure and one that was good-tempered all round, which is not always the case.
7220	I am happy to say that I can regard the end result of conciliation as very satisfactory for Parliament as the joint text has incorporated all its amendments either in full or in a re-worded form.
7221	The financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the Council' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there.
7222	I therefore propose that this House agree to adopt the proposals on SAVE and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading.
7223	I would like to remind the House that at second reading Parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments, including a re-instatement of the Commission' s original budget.
7224	The Commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and I thank the Commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the Council had proposed was unacceptable.
7225	During the procedure, agreement was reached on the studies and actions to devise, implement, complement and assess the Community measures.
7226	Compromise wordings were agreed for five other amendments including legislative and non-legislative measures and the inclusion of local energy centres and, very importantly, the energy audit systems in the review of progress on energy efficiency.
7227	I hope that you will all agree that this is important progress.
7228	The issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by Parliament in the face of the Council' s very meagre opening offer.
7229	In the event we had to have several meetings before the Council finally increased this to a substantial amount.
7230	We got an increase of 2 million on their starting figure which was a decisive increase which I can recommend to you and which the Commission confirmed that it could implement the programmes under.
7231	This was an important consideration for us.
7232	I would like to say however that it is, and has always been, a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real.
7233	Funding for energy saving still comes primarily from the Member States.
7234	We have to bear that in mind when approving this programme.
7235	If there is more symbolism than reality in what we can achieve at Community level, this is a pity because there is a lot of enthusiasm at local level for action, including Community actions, on energy saving.
7236	Where the Community can step in is to put the local activators in touch with each other so that they can actually not re-invent the wheel in every region.
7237	We have an important part to play in the Community in the European Union in this regard.
7238	SAVE is the only Community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy.
7239	It focuses on non-technical elements, helping to build energy efficiency infrastructure, and the purpose of the programme is to create an environment in which investments and energy efficiency will be promoted.
7240	Here we need to realise that there is also a market opportunity in industry for energy savings.
7241	We have heard a lot about difficulties of competition in renewable energies but energy efficiency saves money for business, saves money all round in fact and therefore it should be non-problematical.
7242	It is something that we can all support.
7243	I have to say, like motherhood, although we all support it, sometimes we do very little substantially and concretely to help the mothers or the people engaged in energy-saving.
7244	We could do rather more, considering that we have made great commitments in reducing CO2 and greenhouse gases and to reduce dependence on energy imports.
7245	We are not taking the kind of action that the citizens want to see.
7246	We are not making the connection so that the citizens can actually do something concretely either at home or in their offices or in industry to support action against global climate change.
7247	If we could communicate this it would be a very interesting thing to do.
7248	I would like once again to thank all who helped in this conciliation process.
7249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to thank Mrs Ahern for her work as rapporteur on this proposal, since she has contributed, in collaboration with the other Members, to the achievement of a very reasonable final result, which in some respects even improves on the proposals of the Commission itself and, of course, on what, from a budgetary point of view, the Council had initially accepted.
7250	As Mrs Ahern has explained very well, the budgets of both the SAVE programme and the ALTENER programme, are basically symbolic budgets, since the burden is shouldered by the countries, the States of the Union, the regions or even, in some cases, the local authorities.
7251	However, despite the fact that the volume is relatively small, it is nevertheless symbolically important that there is a common desire throughout the Community as a whole to support this type of action, which contributes to our genuine compliance with the Kyoto commitments. This action also contributes to achieving greater diversification in terms of our energy sources, greater safety in our energy supplies and, in the case of SAVE, to reducing consumption and increasing efficiency in the use of energy, thereby contributing to achieving the objectives set.
7252	Furthermore, behind these programmes, that is to say, the SAVE programme, which concerns greater efficiency and energy savings, and the Altener programme, which concerns renewable energy, there lies an extremely important technological challenge, which, from an economic point of view, may offer significant opportunities to industry and also for the creation of jobs in our countries and therefore in the Union as a whole.
7253	With regard to the parliamentary procedure, I would like once again to thank all of those who have acted and spoken, especially the rapporteur, because the majority of Parliament' s amendments have been incorporated into the proposal accepted by the Council, in this case practically all of them, although with some modifications. I would also like to express my gratitude because an improvement on the initial offer of funds has been achieved.
7254	This improvement has been achieved with fresh funds, as we said at the time, and it has been achieved while safeguarding this Parliament' s prerogatives and competences.
7255	From the point of view of the Commission, in this interinstitutional game, I believe that this is important and I am very happy to highlight it.
7256	I would like once again to thank all the speakers, and also, especially, the Vice-President, Mr Provan, for his magnificent work throughout this debate, particularly during the conciliation procedure, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Industry and, also, above all, the rapporteur, Mrs Ahern, and all the Members who have participated in this work.
7257	Thank you, Commissioner.
7258	The debate is closed.
7259	The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
7260	CULTURE 2000
7261	The next item is the report (A5-0009/2000) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation ('Culture 2000') (C5-0327/1999 - 1998/0169(COD)).
7262	Madam President, I actually feel that we ought not to have continued discussing this because we said everything there was to say in the last debate.
7263	Unfortunately, there has been no change in the way that the Council always talks about culture but fails to allocate any money for it.
7264	We have the feeling, and are in fact convinced, that the Member States would be more than happy to withdraw the things they wrote in 1992 in the Treaty of Maastricht.
7265	For no one is very keen to spend money on culture.
7266	Sadly that is the case and we must face facts.
7267	I would like to thank the rapporteur, who really has chipped away tirelessly at this monumental task, in conjunction with the Commissioner of course.
7268	We simply had to take on board the fact that whilst we actually attained our goal in terms of content, of course the same could not be said of the financial aspect.
7269	One seems powerless in a dialogue of this kind, where the other party actually has to reach a unanimous decision.
7270	What kind of horse-trading system is this? Certainly not a fair one!
7271	There are always people who are in a position to reject everything and there we are on the other side, begging for a little more money for culture.
7272	It is downright scandalous what goes on!
7273	It is an awful sort of horse-trading, based on unequal positions!
7274	Nevertheless, we are pleased that this programme has turned out in the way that we wanted it to.
7275	It lives up to the expectations the citizens have of us.
7276	We will support small and medium-sized events, not the large ones, and we will afford individual citizens and also the smaller operators easier access. I believe that the fact that Culture and, fittingly, Education and Youth now fall within the same Commissioner' s remit, will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes, which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the European Union.
7277	If one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied, but then only a tiny bit.
7278	It is my hope that we will be able to achieve a lot of synergy with a little money.
7279	Madam President, I agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and I must add that, during the conciliation procedure, I was personally a little disappointed with the Council.
7280	On the one hand, it continued to refuse to accept the term "European cultural policy" or other similar terms, even undervaluing the terms of the Treaty, and it defines "Culture 2000" simply as an instrument for cultural cooperation and no more.
7281	On the other hand, it has shown complete intransigence with regard to the funds requested by this Parliament, which were minimal anyway.
7282	Incidentally, this last point would be unfair to fourteen Members of the Council, since it was just one, the Netherlands, which was responsible for that intransigence.
7283	It has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the Council.
7284	This demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution.
7285	However, Madam President, these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow, and which the Socialists will vote in favour of, will put in place one of the European Union' s most important programmes.
7286	By taking action in the field of culture, we are directly contributing to the construction of a European soul, especially given the fact that the sub-programmes which make up "Culture 2000" are superb.
7287	In recent years, these have been amongst the programmes most eagerly accepted by the youngest and most dynamic citizens of the European Union.
7288	Lastly, I would like to mention the profoundly human impression I have formed of the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura: his knowledge, his sense of balance, his intellectual qualities, make him, in my opinion, the best possible rapporteur this report could have had.
7289	Congratulations!
7290	Finally, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Reding, Vice-President Imbeni and Mr Gargani, chairman of the Committee on Culture, for the firm and intelligent position which, each within his own role, they have maintained during the entire conciliation process.
7291	Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking Mr Graça Moura most warmly for the tremendous efforts he has put into the discussion of this Culture 2000 programme.
7292	It has been said before, and we have discussed this between ourselves on various occasions, that culture is, of course, extremely important as an area unto itself - I would like to stress this once again - but also as the instrument par excellence for furthering the European idea.
7293	It is also of great importance to citizens.
7294	We should, above all, not lose sight of this.
7295	The impetus given to the European idea by this programme is having an enormous impact, especially on small linguistic areas such as the Netherlands which not only has national potential, but is also relying on support from the programme, mainly from a language point of view.
7296	Today, we have arrived at the end of a long road.
7297	I would nonetheless like, as others have done, to touch upon the procedure, which is unclear and, above all, unwanted.
7298	Codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand.
7299	They are like a snake biting its own tail.
7300	There is little room for negotiation if one of the parties states beforehand: anything is open for discussion, as long as the budget stays fixed.
7301	As it happens - and I would like to add this for the sake of the Netherlands - negotiations on this matter have taken place at an earlier stage.
7302	The result is 30% growth, so we are not completely dissatisfied with the result.
7303	Of course, it is always better to make more funding available more quickly - and I for one will always advocate this - but I do think that this programme opens up good opportunities for quite a few programmes.
7304	I would like to stress that culture is not only funded from this particular pot.
7305	Culture does not only fall under the banner of culture but also under that of all kinds of other areas.
7306	A great deal of money for culture is also set aside in the Structural Funds, and this is something which we should definitely consider and bear in mind.
7307	Fortunately, I am on the Committee on Regional Policy. So I myself will make sure that this aspect receives due attention.
7308	I think that we have also opted in favour of allowing the budget to be of an adequate size because, if it happens to be cancelled, then surely this does not benefit the citizen.
7309	I have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect.
7310	However, I do think that it is necessary, as he always states too, that, in the next IGC, changes will be made to codecision, when unanimity will no longer be necessary.
7311	We are very positive about the many improvements which have been made: no more mega-projects, room for cultural networks, and sufficient attention to promoting reading, translating and translation companies.
7312	This is especially important to smaller linguistic areas. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also Mrs Reding for Culture 2000.
7313	All that remains for me to say is: time to get down to business.
7314	Madam President, all that I wanted to say has been covered by those fellow Members who spoke before me and I think there is unanimity among the groups in the European Parliament and among those of us on the Committee on Culture.
7315	I too must say that I will be voting for this joint text for a Council and European Parliament decision with a very heavy heart.
7316	Not because our delegation, our rapporteur and the chairman Mr Gargani did not work exceptionally well - they worked very hard indeed - and not because I have any strong objection to Commissioner Reding' s attitude - I think that, given the framework she was operating in, her attitude was particularly positive - but because of the negative and unacceptable position adopted by the Council.
7317	It is shameful!
7318	That figure of EUR 167 million for so many years is a disgrace for the European Union!
7319	When we are compelled literally to humiliate theatre groups, young musicians, pioneering activities in the arts, writers, to humiliate them and send them packing with a slap on the back and thirty rejection slips in such a way that they begin to perceive Europe as something foreign, something opposed, contrary and hostile to any effort towards cultural creativity - an area in which the European Union should make its presence felt because our mission is not just the euro, not just enlargement, nor geostrategic expedients, but also to encourage culture to flower in this affair of European Unification - then this is indeed a sorry way to end.
7320	So long as we continue to have unanimity, so long as yesterday the Dutch Government was able to impose those EUR 167 million as an ultimatum and so long as a government with Mr Haider will soon be telling us what cultural activities we can pursue, we will never progress.
7321	That is why it is very important for the Intergovernmental Conference to take important decisions and to cut free so that the European Parliament' s efforts to create a meaningful cultural impetus within the European area may be rid of this constraint by all the governments.
7322	Madam President, I absolutely agree with the rapporteur' s analysis and I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Gargani, for his praiseworthy work in a mediation process that was also, considerably difficult.
7323	Of course, we felt the need to simplify and consolidate the previous programmes, but everyone hoped that the Culture programme could help to promote, for example, the unique features of each cultural sector, even - and I could say especially - of the unique features of less well-known sectors.
7324	We hope that this, at the least, will come about during the evaluation process.
7325	We sincerely believe in the validity of cultural action, among other things in terms of making a contribution to the social, as well as economic, development of a people.
7326	And a fully-fledged Europe can compete with the rest of the world and fully rediscover its roots, highlight its common cultural heritage and enhance and restore dignity to cultural and linguistic islands that until now were less well-known.
7327	As for the important educational task which the European Union must carry out as regards culture, one of the programme' s most obvious limitations is the level of funding - we have heard this several times - which censures the fact that the Council at least - certainly not the Commissioner - is not completely aware of the importance of cultural action: the document which prioritises the economic factor over social integration also bears witness to this.
7328	The overall growth of the European Union and the awareness of being European citizens: this is why we believe that the Culture 2000 programme, albeit with a scarcity of funds, can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal.
7329	Madam President, I will add to the unanimity of the evening and say that I support the adoption of Culture 2000 and add my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, who took over from our former colleague Nana Mouskouri.
7330	Both of them have done a first-class job.
7331	Alongside the debate we had earlier on in the day, culture may not seem that important, but it is; and we have to be careful in the European Parliament not to allow the urgent to get in the way of the important.
7332	Why do I say that culture is important?
7333	Well in simple economic terms, Europe' s culture adds to genuine prosperity.
7334	Where would Europe' s tourism industry be without the richness of our culture?
7335	But, more importantly than that, cultural activities are what make mankind civilised.
7336	Culture is at the root of our democratic beliefs; and an uncultured society is not going to sustain tolerance and freedom and democracy.
7337	Cultural diversity is important, and it is under threat.
7338	However, it is not under threat from Europe.
7339	Many people in my country say they see British culture being under threat, for example, from Portugal, from Germany, from Finland, for heaven' s sake.
7340	We do drink port wine, and we do like German beer, and we even use Finnish saunas, but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat.
7341	What I do see right across Europe is people drinking Coca Cola, eating hamburgers, wearing baseball caps, watching Hollywood films and often doing all this at the same time.
7342	Now I do not believe that protectionism and regulation is the way of defending Europe' s culture, but I do believe in lending a helping hand when we can.
7343	That is what Culture 2000 is about.
7344	So, I say to the Council of Ministers: Keep this programme genuinely under review.
7345	Are we doing enough?
7346	And, I say to Madame Reding, thank you for the support and the help you have given so far, keep up the good work, we are on your side.
7347	Madam President, I too would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, Graa Moura, and Commissioner Reding, for their contribution to the creation of this programme.
7348	The Culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between Parliament and the Council.
7349	The outcome can be considered reasonable, when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council.
7350	We have to hope that at the forthcoming IGC we will also end up with qualified majority decisions in the area of culture.
7351	It is really strange that legislation that adheres to the codecision procedure when it is being debated requires unanimity for it to be passed in the Council.
7352	The framework programme on culture is replacing the present Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael programmes.
7353	When implementation of the programme begins, I hope in particular that the scope it offers for literature and the translation of books can be utilised to the full.
7354	I believe and hope that, despite the assault on us all of the new technology, literature will maintain its status.
7355	We need the depth of spirit that literature provides in the midst of a culture that has a short attention span and is inclined towards the superficial.
7356	Literature likewise plays an important part in the way it transmits our cultural heritage, increases mutual familiarity and preserves linguistic wealth and the diversity of tongues.
7357	In this connection, I am very glad to say that soon after the Socrates and Culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the Council of Ministers in March in Lisbon, the country holding the presidency of the EU is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries.
7358	I hope that this conference will also encourage the Commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society.
7359	Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, somehow or other, today' s agenda has come full circle.
7360	We have had a great deal to say today about Europe as a community of values, about tolerance, human dignity, human rights, a positive approach to the enlargement process, transparency and respect for each other.
7361	Youth, education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values, for giving the citizens confidence in the European Union and making it credible in their eyes.
7362	The funding approved by the Council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the European Union' s goals.
7363	Cultural activity creates identity.
7364	Cultural activity is an expression of individuality, of an individual' s own personality; it builds relationships and communicates.
7365	We want a colourful Europe.
7366	We want a Europe based on the principle of diversity within unity.
7367	We want people to understand and learn to appreciate differences.
7368	That is why we spoke in favour of breaking down the budget, the allocation of funds that is, into the different types of measure.
7369	That is why we opposed concentrating heavily on large networks and network structures, because we want to promote the small and medium-sized entities and activities performed by individuals; because we want to see thousands of flowers bloom.
7370	I would like to second what the previous speaker had to say.
7371	There is a contradiction in terms - unanimity principle, codecision procedure, and Conciliation Committee - and it is one we must resolve if we want to strengthen, and not further weaken the principles of cultural policy that are to create a European consciousness.
7372	Madam President, as we have heard, all the groups have a common political enemy in the Council.
7373	It is not by chance that the Committee on Culture' s decisions are constantly ending up in the conciliation procedure, for one or other Member State in the Council always holds culture hostage to other interests.
7374	In this way, the unanimity principle has shown itself to be a blockading instrument of the first order.
7375	The battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years, and now, at long last, the European Parliament can give the go-ahead.
7376	The Council could not be moved, not even when the precursor programmes Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael finished.
7377	A pilot programme was called for to bridge the gap.
7378	This showed up the weaknesses of the European Union' s cultural policy activities once again.
7379	The political fight over funding and programme structuring is out of all proportion to the volume of support.
7380	Out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of EUR 6.07 million could be considered.
7381	The Council was not prepared in the case of this particular programme to accommodate Parliament to the tune of even a single euro!
7382	And so the moderate sum of 167 million will stand until 2004.
7383	That is the same as a single, medium-sized, German opera house' s expenditure over the same period, when here in Europe this sum has been earmarked for 29 countries over a period of five years!
7384	There is a blatant discrepancy here!
7385	And so we are going to have to be content, albeit very grudgingly, with the fact that we have at least managed to achieve something in terms of content.
7386	Previous speakers have already kindly pointed this out.
7387	We can only hope that it will, after all, be possible to persuade the Council to have a change of heart one day.
7388	Perhaps the Council will come to understand that cultural activities do the European Union good, not harm!
7389	Cultural cooperation - and this was also mentioned earlier - truly creates identity, far more so than any transport directive, however important it might be.
7390	Providing support for culture meets with wide-spread acceptance, and this certainly cannot be said of all policy decisions.
7391	What, may I ask, is the Council afraid of?
7392	Madam President, whoever has the honour, like myself, to chair the Committee on Culture, cannot fail to agree with the comments from various Members and can but congratulate the rapporteur, and Commissioner Reding, with whom he worked and who, even during the conciliation process, had difficult moments and opposed the Council - you have heard this said by everyone.
7393	I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted, but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make.
7394	I shall simply stress my own personal complaint because, in the end, we did not manage to adopt a review clause.
7395	However, Mrs Reding was certainly receptive and farsighted, and personally undertook to review the issue and carry out a comprehensive assessment within a few years, and therefore to change the situation.
7396	The cultural programmes launched in years past - Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael - are being replaced by a single programme, Culture 2000, where - and I must stress this here very forcefully - the rapporteur censures a position which should give the European Parliament cause for reflection - as someone said this afternoon - but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor.
7397	This is not rhetoric, but the new embodiment of a modern liberalism which unites the European States and constitutes a turning point for the European Parliament and the Commission.
7398	We agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds, this evening' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for Europe, which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor; culture then, and an institutional aspect, the basis for structuring a vast community, a prerequisite for economic growth, and not the complete opposite, as Europe, in its cultural habits, has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past.
7399	Man and culture are priorities, and culture can result in economic growth.
7400	Let us contemplate this result, derive satisfaction from it and grant ourselves a licence to fully embrace this worthwhile strategy.
7401	Madam President, may I first thank Mr Graça Moura for weaving his way through the rather tough textiles and fibres that have made up this conciliation tapestry.
7402	It seems to me when entering the conciliation process for Culture 2000, having a poet to lead us in our endeavours is entirely appropriate.
7403	Again, because these conciliations are not entirely straight forward, we have to thank Vice-President Imbeni for his exemplary negotiating skills in the convoluted field of ensuring that cultural expenditure is wisely deployed and given to us in our Community.
7404	The fundamental question, it seems to me, that faces this Parliament, the Commission and the Council is: What is Europe?
7405	What does it mean and what does Europe give us over and above the parameters of our national boundaries?
7406	Europe is its people, its history and now its collectivity; but the reason why Culture 2000 is so important to us is for this: I will wager that when we ask the question - 'What is Europe?' - we answer it by saying, 'It is our art, it is our literature and it is our heritage.'
7407	That is what Culture 2000 represents.
7408	It represents the possibility of sustaining a European identity in the twenty-first century, an identity which eschews the echoes of division, of war, of poverty, of opportunity, of poverty dans la realité.
7409	And more than this - and this is more prosaic, Madam President, it means that we have the ability to learn from previous policy initiatives by putting them into action in new programmes that are comprehensive, that are cross-cutting and that benefit our creative industries to the extent that they now require.
7410	It promotes mobility, and it opens the doors of culture to the socially disadvantaged and excluded.
7411	My only regret is that in promoting this programme we do not have sufficient money to match our aspirations and ensure our ability to deliver.
7412	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of a long road.
7413	Following the conciliation stage, our institutions can now formally adopt the new 'Culture 2000' framework programme.
7414	We shall thus, in the course of the next five years, have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear, well-structured and, I am sure, successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector.
7415	It is with great satisfaction that I today welcome this 'happy ending' in this House, and I thank you for it.
7416	I wish to thank everyone in this Parliament who worked to achieve this successful outcome to the conciliation process.
7417	I should like to express especial thanks to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, particularly to its rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, its chairman, Mr Gargani, the European Parliament delegation and the leaders of the political groups, the Conciliation Committee and its chairman, Mr Imbeni.
7418	They all made a vital constructive and balanced contribution.
7419	Throughout the negotiations, they were of great help and it must be said that the difficult and occasionally tiresome negotiations were nonetheless completed in record time.
7420	We now have a framework programme, the first of its type for the cultural sector, and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive, but also more thorough and detailed manner.
7421	I would like to express my delight, with you, at this pleasing outcome. In spite of a budget situation which does not match up to our ambitions, these results will now enable us to approach the future positively and I would like to pick up on what Mr Gargani has just said, that the Commission made a statement regarding a mid-term assessment.
7422	It stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with Article 7 of the European Parliament and Council decision, it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme, and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the Community financial perspectives.
7423	If need be, the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision, and this should be achieved by 30 June 2002.
7424	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a formal commitment, not just words on paper.
7425	All this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area, within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features, in all their diversity, but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of Europe may participate fully in them.
7426	It is thanks, too, to Parliament' s action, preferring a number of small-scale measures to be carried out close to the citizens' cultural roots rather than vast measures on a spectacular scale.
7427	This is going to lead us to make 'Culture 2000' the programme of the citizen.
7428	The increased participation of our citizens is something I hope and pray for.
7429	I would like this participation to be as extensive and productive as possible and I undertake to work to ensure that in the course of the five years covered by the programme it becomes a tangible reality.
7430	I know that you, as Members of Parliament, in your own regions and countries, are all going to work together with the programme participants so that all these small flowers, as one Member of Parliament said, go to make a vast multicoloured carpet.
7431	I should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens, both in personal as well as in social and economic terms, but a right which it is our job to assert, and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the Union.
7432	This is what our European 'Culture 2000' programme offers.
7433	It does not compete with the cultural policies implemented in the various Member States. Such policies are necessary, and I would like to see them developed further.
7434	It simply adds to them, complements them, building a bridge between the various cultures of our various countries.
7435	I feel therefore that extending and enriching European citizens' participation in culture is a crucial task, one which justifies the efforts we make to achieve it, and this is the yardstick against which we must measure the success of our programme and of our Union.
7436	A number of Members of Parliament have quite rightly raised this point. If the Union is purely an economic union, then it is a stillborn project.
7437	However, if it is a union of culture, civilisation and participation, then it becomes a living thing.
7438	This is the foundation, ladies and gentlemen, which I intend to develop, and I shall take the following five areas into special consideration: firstly, providing creative people with opportunities of an innovative nature to allow their talent to find the support it deserves in our programme.
7439	Secondly, encouraging exchanges, mobility and training in the cultural sector.
7440	Thirdly, promoting cooperation between cultural operators.
7441	Fourthly, increasing audiences for culture, with particular emphasis on attracting young people to culture and, fifthly, protecting the common cultural heritage on the European scale as well as the history of the peoples of Europe, and making them better known.
7442	The new programme will, I am sure, in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency, efficiency and balance, prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures.
7443	Madam President, I reiterate my thanks to Parliament for its support and for, once again, having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the Union.
7444	I am certain that it will not be disappointed, having given us its support, and I personally undertake to keep Parliament informed, as things progress, of the various phases of the implementation of our measures and the measures of our citizens, which I hope will be great measures for the future of the Union.
7445	Thank you, Commissioner. I think we can also thank the rapporteur once again.
7446	The debate is closed.
7447	The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
7448	(The sitting was closed at 9.55 p.m.)
7449	End-of-life vehicles
7450	The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A5-0006/2000), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of the European Parliament and Council Directive on end-of-life vehicles [8095/1/1999 - C5-0180/1999 - 1997/0194(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr Florenz)
7451	Mr President, nine million cars are shredded and scrapped every year in Europe.
7452	Even though they can no longer be driven, these nine million cars may still be traded and moved across borders; and not just intra-Community borders, but also those outside the Union.
7453	It is therefore only right that the European Union should draw up Community rules on how these nine million vehicles every year are to be recycled and processed.
7454	We believe that the directive has a few weaknesses that we in the House should work on to produce a directive which is genuinely ground-breaking.
7455	We therefore have a number of amendments.
7456	I personally believe that the scope of the directive goes beyond its objective.
7457	I do not think it is necessary for classic cars to be part of the directive.
7458	Nor do I think that motorcycles should be included, as the distinctive culture of recycling within the motorcycle industry obviates the need for a European directive in this area.
7459	I am not looking for such rigidly high recycling quotas when it comes to special-purpose vehicles either.
7460	I want special-purpose vehicles such as ambulances to have high recovery quotas.
7461	This is my main concern in this matter.
7462	In my opinion, the directive solidly regulates the matter of accountability for how a car is disposed of in Europe.
7463	This can be left as the Commission has proposed with the Member States ensuring the appropriate collection points for draining cars.
7464	This will involve, for example, disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil, removing break fluid, etc.
7465	An important part of this directive is the issue of what to do with used parts.
7466	What should we do with the shredded products?
7467	We should not overlook the fact that, although quotas are an important point in recycling and recovery, they are by no means the only point.
7468	Do not forget that, in the case of cars, 80% of environmental impact comes through driving, 1% through recovery and 19% through construction.
7469	Quotas are not, therefore, the only parameter in the matter of environmental compatibility, just one of many.
7470	Of course we need to aim high, but quotas must not become an end in themselves.
7471	We must understand that the bigger picture is important when it comes to the environmental impact of cars.
7472	I am far keener to see us move away from today's car, weighing 1,400 kg and driving an average of 200,000 km, to a future car capable of driving the same distance but weighing just 1,000 kg.
7473	This would at least mean 400 kg times 200,000 km less transportation.
7474	This would represent real environmental progress because it would lead to a large reduction in CO2 which, if I have rightly understood the Kyoto Protocol, is the important factor.
7475	We therefore consider that, in future, vehicles which clearly and effectively use lightweight construction methods will produce less CO2 and should receive preferential treatment in their combustion quotas.
7476	It should not be for each Member State, but for you and your staff, Commissioner, to decide whether these lightweight construction vehicles (and there is also talk of 3-litre vehicles) should receive preferential treatment.
7477	We think they should.
7478	May I say something about costs.
7479	Some say that all the costs should be borne by the manufacturers; that this is only right and in the very best interests of the consumer.
7480	However, this can be seriously questioned as the manufacturers will pass on all the costs to consumers and acquire for themselves a state-sanctioned monopoly on recycling.
7481	I can only warn you against consenting to this.
7482	There are amendments which propose splitting the costs fifty-fifty between the manufacturer and the buyer of a new car.
7483	The money from this pool, system, or however you want to picture it, would mean that from 2006 all vehicles in circulation could be taken in without cost to the last holder.
7484	This too is a particular desire of my group.
7485	Our proposal to split the costs has a crucial advantage, namely that we won't be an immediate candidate for the Court of Justice when the directive is adopted.
7486	The car industry is concerned about and half expecting repercussions, which is a serious problem which we must address accordingly.
7487	This is why I propose splitting the costs between the first holder and the manufacturer.
7488	As for a ban on certain materials: of course we need one!
7489	A car has dangerous components which we must ban long-term.
7490	This means that we need a pressure instrument.
7491	The Commission has put forward various proposals which are too stringent and we have come up with some alternatives.
7492	There are a number of sound amendments.
7493	This Parliament has been given more authority, so let us use it!
7494	Let us have the courage to put together a ground-breaking directive.
7495	A directive which we put together just for the sake of it would not be worthy of this House.
7496	I ask for your support.
7497	Mr President, I almost feel like saying, "Phew" , now that we have at last come to the second reading on this directive which has given us so much work, and which has clearly also given a great deal of work to the rapporteur, Mr Florenz.
7498	I do not consider this directive to be at all satisfactory since it does not answer the real question over what is going to be done with vehicles which have already been abandoned and which, today, can only be removed at local authority expense, i.e. the taxpayers' expense.
7499	The principle of 'polluter pays' is not being applied.
7500	Vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by Community legislation, in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles.
7501	The only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future.
7502	It has not, however, been possible to solve the problem of vehicles currently being used but which are already old and which cost far more to recycle.
7503	On the other hand, we can be fairly confident for the future because we know the efforts that car manufacturers are prepared to make in order to find (a) materials that are easier to recycle and (b) to set up recycling industries.
7504	I should also like to stress the need to maintain a flexible approach to recycling, reuse and incineration, as far as the new particularly light materials are concerned which make it possible to reduce vehicle consumption and therefore emissions.
7505	This is a problem of compatibility between our directives on end-of-life vehicles and the former directives, including the one on auto-oil, which we voted on a few years ago.
7506	We must therefore congratulate the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on having the wisdom, in order to make things perfectly clear, to reintroduce the clause making an exception of the vintage cars which are part of our industrial and cultural heritage.
7507	In conclusion, let me say that this directive is not ambitious enough to solve the problems of present car numbers and it is rather hypocritical with regard to the fate reserved for the wrecks which still clutter our forests, lakes and gardens.
7508	Once again, the principle of 'polluter pays' is not being applied. The taxpayer is still footing the bill.
7509	Mr President, Commissioner, reading the leaflets which have been distributed in recent weeks, one would think that we were talking about the ultimate environmental catastrophe or the death of the car industry in Europe.
7510	Neither is correct.
7511	We simply must realise that the directive on the table is a sound directive.
7512	It means ecological progress for Europe, and we can be proud of ourselves if we succeed in enacting it and setting it in motion.
7513	All the same, there is one point on which we are in conflict.
7514	In the grand scheme of the directive, it is perhaps a minor point, but nevertheless a disputed one.
7515	It concerns the issue of recycling costs.
7516	Here we find ourselves fundamentally at odds with last year's debate in the Council when freedom from costs for the last owner and the issue of financing were lumped together and a question mark placed over whether the last owner should really be free from costs.
7517	Last February in this House we unambiguously decided (and we Social Democrats are sticking to this) that the matter of freedom from costs for the last owner is not open to question!
7518	So who will pay for the vehicles which are to be disposed of?
7519	For us this is straightforward: in the case of new vehicles it should be the manufacturer since this will also compel manufacturers to design and build recyclable cars.
7520	And what about vehicles which are already on the road?
7521	Let us look at an example. Rover in Great Britain, if they were responsible for all end-of-life cars, would actually be responsible for 5.8 million cars within the European Union and would immediately have to set aside EUR 250 million against recycling costs, whereas a manufacturer from Korea building similar cars would only have to shell out peanuts, as a representative of Deutsche Bank put it.
7522	Such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in Europe.
7523	Consequently, for end-of-life vehicles we propose setting up a fund to cover the costs of recycling end-of-life vehicles in order to safeguard the principle of freedom from costs.
7524	I can understand it when colleagues from countries which do not build cars advocate that manufacturers should pay the full whack and that they are not interested in the problem of distortions in competition when it comes to setting aside funds.
7525	However, I would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in Europe, so that these jobs can be secured in the future.
7526	I am in favour of stringent environmental requirements, as you know from the auto-oil programme and the debate on exhaust emissions, but I believe that they should be the same for everyone!
7527	Mr President, Commissioner, I think we need this directive.
7528	Firstly, because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives.
7529	Secondly, because it can promote recycling, which is important.
7530	Thirdly, because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals.
7531	This is also an important point.
7532	The directive affords a European framework, also to Member States who already have systems in place and who wish to continue to use these.
7533	So, first of all, we need to keep the recycling percentages at their present level. This will, of course, provide the necessary incentive for technological innovation and for identifying ways of dealing with materials that we do not as yet know how to dispose of.
7534	Secondly, we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position.
7535	As from 2006, therefore, all vehicles should be handed in at no cost to their last owners.
7536	Needless to say, this is most definitely an essential point which should not be changed in any way.
7537	Is this too much of a burden? There is, however, one thing we should not overlook.
7538	The directive applies to complete cars, that is to say cars with none of the essential components missing. According to the experts, few of these complete cars are of no value.
7539	After all, recycling and the re-use of components form part of a sector which is not necessarily loss-making.
7540	Quite the reverse, in fact. At present, there is a whole raft of companies which make a living out of them, and a decent one at that.
7541	This directive encourages the whole of this sector. It is a sector which comprises small and medium-sized businesses.
7542	Since, in this case, transport costs are high, a system will have to be introduced which will need to be very much decentralised, because transporting an end-of-life vehicle over a distance of more than 100 km is not a profitable activity.
7543	I think it is a good thing that this directive does not need to apply to historic vehicles, and I think we ought to add this provision to it.
7544	I think, therefore, that vintage cars ought to be exempt.
7545	Also, it is a good thing that we should clearly lay the burden of responsibility with the manufacturer. That is a basic principle which we must uphold.
7546	As manufacturers are responsible for the design, they can give a great deal of consideration to the environment at the conception phase.
7547	We must also insist that the cost is borne wholly or largely by the manufacturer, as stipulated in the common position.
7548	I find this a well-balanced formula which does not preclude a number of other things.
7549	I think we need to retain it.
7550	This is why our group will remain as close to the common position as possible and will not alter its essence.
7551	After all, we are all aware how difficult it was within the Council to bring this common position about, and that it was a very difficult balancing act to reach this common position.
7552	In my opinion, we should not jeopardise that common position, because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons.
7553	I would ask you to support this common position.
7554	Our group will, at any rate, do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well-balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including, for example, the way in which the costs are to be distributed.
7555	Mr President, we need to take an important decision today.
7556	Does this European Parliament support the ecological principle of manufacturer' s liability, that is to say that cars, once they have reached the end of their lives, are the responsibility of the car manufacturer?
7557	No, according to the Christian Democrats in Amendment No. 38: car manufacturers and car drivers should split the cost 50/50.
7558	It is evident from the packaging directive in which this 50/50 compromise is included that this does not work.
7559	Packaging still accounts for a mountain of rubbish in Europe and is a burden upon the environment.
7560	Some of the socialists under the direction of Mr Bernd Lange say: yes, we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to Amendment No 45.
7561	The common position stipulates 2006. According to the group of the Greens, this gives the car industry ample time to make the necessary preparations.
7562	I would therefore urge my colleagues not to support Amendment No 38 of the Christian Democrats and Amendment No 45 of some of the socialists.
7563	If car manufacturers need to bear the cost of recycling their cars, they will design these cars in such a way that they can be re-used more easily and more cheaply.
7564	The problem of plastic and PVC will then no longer exist in cars and these products will be replaced by plant-based bioplastic. This is ultimately cheaper, also for the consumer.
7565	For twenty years, the majority within Parliament has attempted to make European environmental policy greener.
7566	Today, this green position is being threatened under pressure from, in particular, the German and French car industries.
7567	That is why I urge you to vote against Amendments Nos 38 and 45.
7568	We, the Green Group, by and large support the common position.
7569	Mr President, the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances.
7570	We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left therefore want as comprehensive and consistent a set of regulations as is humanly possible in this area.
7571	With this directive, we have the chance to take a big step forward, but this presupposes that the Council' s position is not torn to shreds and weakened in Parliament' s reading of it.
7572	If they were adopted, many of the amendments which have been tabled would considerably weaken the directive.
7573	This applies, above all, to amendments from the Group of the European People' s Party but also, unfortunately, to some of the amendments from Mr Lange, as I see it.
7574	It is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries, for example in Germany, went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted.
7575	For ourselves, it is crucial that the following principles should apply.
7576	The polluter should pay.
7577	This means that it is the manufacturer which should take full responsibility, financial as well as otherwise, for recycling vehicles.
7578	There must be rules governing existing vehicles too.
7579	Where this aspect is concerned, we cannot accept any weakening of the Council' s position regarding the date from which the regulations are to come into force.
7580	There should be no falling-off in the percentages concerned or in the requirements for recycling vehicles from particular years, and it is important to limit the use of dangerous substances such as lead.
7581	We shall vote against any amendments which run counter to these considerations.
7582	If those amendments were adopted which would considerably weaken the directive, this would be very detrimental, not only from an environmental point of view but also for the European Parliament' s credibility on environmental issues.
7583	Reference was made earlier on in the debate to the fact that some thought should be given to the millions of people who work in the car industry in various countries and to those countries which have large car industries, for example my own country, Sweden.
7584	I was myself a car worker before I was elected. I believe I am one of the few members of this Parliament to have stood beside a production line and assembled cars.
7585	I think that very tough demands should be made of the car industry. These would, of course, be to the advantage of modern, progressive car manufacturers who think in environmentally friendly terms.
7586	It is precisely this type of car industry which we should be encouraging in the European Union.
7587	Mr President, I am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this Parliament, as indeed it is for the citizens of Europe.
7588	There is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment.
7589	Our citizens expect us in this regard to protect their interests.
7590	Each year, there are between 8 and 9 million vehicles scrapped within the European Union.
7591	This in itself generates a large amount of waste.
7592	Car manufacturers, the suppliers of materials and equipment manufacturers must make an effort to limit the use of hazardous substances and therefore must ensure at the design stage that recycled materials can be used in the manufacture of cars.
7593	We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union.
7594	From an Irish perspective, I know that the Irish Department of the Environment is already having consultations with motor industry representatives to ensure that appropriate collection centres are put in place in Ireland in the near future to deal with end-of-life vehicles.
7595	I see no reason why licensing arrangements cannot be organised across Europe for collection centres to scrap the 8 to 9 million vehicles which are disposed of within the European Union on an annual basis.
7596	Car manufacturers will have to provide information on the rate of re-use, recycling and recovery of used cars which will be achieved in the coming years.
7597	In accordance with new provisions included in the Amsterdam Treaty all the 370 million consumers within the European Union have a right to consumer-related information.
7598	I believe EU consumers will support those car manufacturers that incorporate the most environmentally-friendly practices in the coming year.
7599	My final point is that the regulations and the legislation must take into account the special position of the vintage car sector throughout the European Community because of its role in relation to the social sector and its environmental and economic considerations.
7600	Mr President, the directive on end-of-life vehicles is certainly a milestone in the improvement of the environment in Europe.
7601	I also think that a great effort has been made to arrive at intelligent recycling of materials, a reduction of polluting waste and the promotion of technological innovation.
7602	In this regard, we are certainly on the right track, but as some Members have already stressed, the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers' responsibility will become a shared responsibility.
7603	I would like to say that in Italy, considerable headway has been made in this sector; we are perhaps the first in Europe to have regulations encouraging us to take end-of-life vehicles off the market, but in our country the average age of cars on the road is rather high, and we therefore have serious concerns over the problems that this directive could entail for the market.
7604	We need to conduct a serious analysis of the matter.
7605	In Italy, we have begun to withdraw and recycle around 80% of old cars, but there is a market problem which could trigger a crisis - in terms of unemployment given that in Italy industry often resorts to lay-offs and redundancies - and cause problems for workers in different parts of Italy.
7606	We must therefore try to reconcile the two requirements - Parliament is sometimes a little extremist, adopting positions that are either extremely pro-green or extremely anti-green - and, all things considered, find a way to combine the effort made by Mr Florenz and that of other Members, who are trying to reconcile the two positions as best as possible.
7607	These worthwhile amendments are the outcome of this; I think that we will be able to arrive at a solution to the problem, that is, to reconcile environmental requirements with market and labour requirements.
7608	Mr President, this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life.
7609	To that extent, it might be thought desirable, even if it is not a matter of urgent necessity.
7610	The key questions now are who pays the EUR 262 per car for the 9 million cars that are disposed of each year?
7611	Who pays for the collection, the dismantling, the disposal and so on?
7612	And should the directive be retrospective to cover every car that has ever been made?
7613	The proposal from the Council, the common position, is that manufacturers should pay the lot.
7614	That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union.
7615	That cost would inevitably be passed on to the price and hence to the buyers of new cars.
7616	Because European car manufactures have been operating here for many, many more decades than companies from Japan, Korea and elsewhere, that would be a much greater burden on the older European companies and a competitive gift to their competitors from elsewhere.
7617	I commend Mr Florenz, Mr Lange and others who have sought from both sides of the party divide a compromise based on shared costs.
7618	I also commend to you the amendment standing in my name and colleagues from Germany, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Sweden and Britain, to remove the retrospective nature of this measure.
7619	Retrospective law is bad law, it is unfair law and often it is unworkable law.
7620	Most democratic parliaments in the free world reject it on principle unless there is overwhelming public interest, which clearly there is not in this case.
7621	That is why I have called for a roll-call vote on this.
7622	We can see who is prepared to vote for a retrospection which is of doubtful legality, which would be a costly burden to every future car buyer and a devastating blow for the European car industry.
7623	Mr President, once again I would like to briefly outline the economic issues involved in this directive, and reaffirm my support for the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange. These amendments actually have the advantage - and I should like to stress this - of reconciling environmental constraints and economic imperatives.
7624	The Council' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all, or a significant part, of the costs of recovery and recycling.
7625	But, as Mr Lange so rightly said, this solution is totally unfair to European car manufacturers.
7626	Coming from a country which does have a car manufacturing industry, I can tell you that it is not possible, retroactively, to impose on them the total financial costs for all vehicles of their makes currently on the road, i.e. effectively making them bear the costs arising from 80% of the total number of cars in Europe.
7627	This solution is unacceptable because these car manufacturers have not had the opportunity to build the environmental demands we are making of them today into their manufacturing procedures and their manufacturing costs.
7628	The common position puts European car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the European market.
7629	Of course, we are not here to defend a particular national interest or a particular industrial lobby. We are here to build a Europe that is competitive on the world market and to safeguard jobs in economic sectors where we are actually competitive.
7630	This is why, I urge you to support the amendments tabled by Bernd Lange. These amendments will be supported by the Group of the Party of European Socialists since they effectively reconcile all the interests involved - economic interests and environmental constraints - while granting Member States the freedom to select the means to implement these constraints, since these amendments envisage that the systems in place in the Members States, and some of them work perfectly well, will be able to continue to operate.
7631	Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the Union, but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector.
7632	Let me briefly say that historic and vintage vehicles must, of course, be exempt from the scope of this directive. Cars are also part of our cultural heritage.
7633	I think we would all agree on that. Having said that, one of the stumbling blocks concerns Article 12, i.e. the date on which the directive will come into force.
7634	Parliament' s proposed solution of 18 months following the directive' s entry into force, for new vehicles, is not terribly realistic.
7635	The European car population amounts to several tens of millions of cars which will have to be recovered even though they were not designed for recycling.
7636	The common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road.
7637	This would, furthermore, make it possible to allow firms time to make funds available to meet these additional expenses.
7638	Like my group, I shall therefore support this aspect the common position which, I feel, offers a balanced compromise between constraints upon firms and essential advances in environmental protection.
7639	Mr President, the European Parliament is today facing an important decision.
7640	Will we give our backing to forward-looking environmental and consumer protection or, as the amendments of Florenz, Lange and others cause me to fear, will we allow ourselves to become a servant of the German car industry?
7641	The credibility of Parliament as a champion of environmental protection is at stake.
7642	It would be shameful to say the least if the European Parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 Member States and the European Commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection!
7643	The intention of Florenz and Lange in their amendments is obvious: to sabotage the directive!
7644	The proposed shared responsibility would undermine the polluter pays principle and detract from product innovation.
7645	In setting up numerous hurdles their sole aim is to hamper an efficient ecological material flow policy and by going down the road of type approvals they seek to delay the implementation of the directives by 12 years or more.
7646	This is totally unacceptable.
7647	I therefore appeal to the German delegates in particular to prevent major political damage occurring today!
7648	The red-green federal government has not exactly covered itself with glory in the debate on the End-of-life Vehicles Directive.
7649	Do not continue in this vein!
7650	The whinging about competitive disadvantages is laughable if it only concerns competitive disadvantages sustained by the German car industry.
7651	Start representing your people and not just your car manufacturers!
7652	Vote in favour of environmental and consumer protection and for innovation in the car and recycling industry!
7653	Mr President, this directive has been under discussion since 1997.
7654	It is high time that we reached an agreement.
7655	Since I more or less share the views of my colleague, Mr Sjöstedt and the representative of the Greens, Mr de Roo, I am not going to use the two minutes allotted to me, and I will highlight just two issues.
7656	Firstly, and this is perhaps the basic point of the proposal, the idea, which goes hand in hand with recycling and the use of waste, that we should use materials which will subsequently cause less pollution.
7657	Another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed, not only in the case of lead, cadmium and mercury, but also in the case of waste which contains PVC.
7658	Parliament is currently discussing this issue in another context.
7659	The other question is who should bear the cost.
7660	I agree with previous speakers who have said that the polluter should pay, and this proposal expresses that idea very well.
7661	Producers must pay - although we all know that the consumer will ultimately suffer the consequences of this - and they must take responsibility for the costs before 2006, as some of the amendments propose.
7662	We are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading.
7663	It is also important to set percentages and a date for vehicles to be composed of recyclable materials.
7664	I believe that this proposal relies on very long deadlines.
7665	Lastly, Mr President, I believe we should favour the creation of small and medium-sized businesses which, if subject to rigorous approval and duly authorised, can promote the creation of jobs in this very important area, preventing the emergence of monopolies by large companies.
7666	Mr President, today the European Parliament must face up to real responsibilities. We have to work out what we are going to do with the millions of vehicles we abandon each year.
7667	In some of our Member States, voluntary environmental agreements have already been signed to ensure that our ditches, canals and fields are not filled with these ugly and dangerous wrecks, inhabited occasionally by an alarmed farmyard chicken.
7668	I come, of course, from a country that is proud of its car industry and of its commercial success both in Europe and in third countries.
7669	I can gauge its importance for my country' s international reputation.
7670	I know of the proactive attitude of the European car manufacturing industry which has set up an extensive research programme to outline a national information system for dismantling end-of-life vehicles.
7671	I am aware of the difficulties the Council experienced in finding a compromise.
7672	That is why, today, we must be understanding alchemists, concerned for our environment. This will either be the century of waste management or it will not.
7673	As far as I am concerned, at least, the principle of 'polluter pays' must be applied.
7674	The car industry, increasingly more respectful of the environment, has, I am sure, anticipated this kind of increasing awareness.
7675	Indeed it is accepting its responsibilities.
7676	It is the Member States, however, who will have to implement this directive, and let us beware of going into too much detail because the industrial traditions, the demolition and crushing sectors vary according to whether you are in Italy or in Finland.
7677	I am opposed to making the car owners liable.
7678	The men and women on the move throughout Europe pay for their car and their catalytic converter, pay their national taxes and the tax on fuel and are therefore already paying a high price for their magnificent machine and their freedom of movement.
7679	It would certainly be unwise for my fellow Members in the major groups of the federalist tendency to seek to make the European Parliament unpopular in this way by creating a liability shared between the owner and the manufacturer.
7680	How, furthermore, can a fund be created which will pay for vehicle recycling and manage operations within Europe.
7681	Who is to pay for recycling the car I bought in France if I register it in Belgium?
7682	Which national fund will pay for my end-of-life vehicle?
7683	Let us beware, too, of worrying the world of business with the legal uncertainty of an unacceptable retroactive application.
7684	It is not our intention to start a punitive legislative campaign here today, but to continue on our present course, advocating sustainable development.
7685	Mr President, most of the time, the European Parliament, spearheaded by environment committees, does its very best to make a critical assessment of the proposals submitted by the European Commission or the Council, so as to improve on them from an environmental point of view.
7686	Now, a sound common position submitted by the Council is in danger of being changed for the worse from an environmental point of view here in Parliament.
7687	Every year, we discard a huge amount of cars which contain many dangerous substances.
7688	This is why it is important to prevent waste materials.
7689	We should also aim for minimum quantities of heavy metals, as well as of other dangerous substances and materials.
7690	In addition, car manufacturers need to produce and build these cars in such a way as to facilitate simple dismantling and re-use.
7691	What is left of the stripped vehicle also requires to be processed adequately.
7692	I therefore welcome with open arms the percentage levels for re-use and recycling which have been proposed by the Council.
7693	These days, the complete dismantling of end-of-life vehicles is economically viable. This means that we move away from shredding.
7694	The prescribed objectives are most certainly viable and, in the Netherlands, a value of 86% recycling has now already been achieved.
7695	The best way of achieving proper collection is to ensure that the last holder and/or owner can deliver the car to an authorised treatment facility without any cost.
7696	The processing cost can then be incorporated in the price of new cars.
7697	The proposals made by a few MEPs impact greatly on this system.
7698	The so-called shared liability is very cumbersome and does not stimulate innovation.
7699	If the system of delivering cars to treatment facilities without any cost is applied, it will also transpire that the cost of processing will come down considerably.
7700	Finally, this directive should enter into force at the earliest opportunity.
7701	A laborious conciliation procedure would entail an unnecessary delay, at the expense of the environment.
7702	Why cannot we just be satisfied with the common position currently tabled?
7703	If we are, then all that remains for us to do is to congratulate the Council on the result achieved.
7704	Mr President, I hold Mr Florenz in high esteem.
7705	He has delivered excellent work under pressure both from his colleagues and from the car industry.
7706	Add to this the fact that he had to do this from his green approach and, against that background, find a compromise. That was not easy.
7707	Overall, I am not dissatisfied with the present common position and certainly not with the philosophy underlying that common position. I would like to comment on two things.
7708	These should indeed be excluded from the directive. Secondly, the controversial question as to who bears the responsibility for taking back cars.
7709	I do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way.
7710	The manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and/or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost.
7711	In my opinion, there is too much initial hesitation.
7712	The car lobby has led too many people up the garden path.
7713	I would also like to mention that experience has nonetheless taught us that the processing cost is in fact passed on.
7714	These costs are not very high.
7715	In the Member State where I come from, you are talking about 150 Guilders per car.
7716	If you charge this from day one, you can process the old cars straight away.
7717	A very large industry might then emerge which would ensure that scrapyards, which used to be a common feature in our Member States, would then disappear.
7718	I do not wish to make any changes to this particular aspect of the compromise.
7719	I think it would be a good thing if we were to approve the present legislation together as soon as possible.
7720	This is positive because, in that way, the nine million cars which are introduced each year onto European roads will actually be processed appropriately, and this will benefit us all.
7721	Mr President, the present directive is important in so far as it helps prevent our being faced with hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and in so far as it promotes the re-use and recycling of materials from scrapped cars.
7722	I therefore think it is crucial for the environment that the ban on using poisonous heavy metals should be fully implemented and that we should not reduce manufacturers' liability.
7723	If we do reduce it, we remove from manufacturers the incentive to design and produce cars which give rise to less waste.
7724	The common position, which was arrived at with great difficulty in the Council, which the Commission has endorsed and which was also maintained in Parliament' s Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, complies fully with the environmental requirements.
7725	I therefore find it incomprehensible and very curious to see amendments from members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the objectives of which are to weaken the environmental requirements and significantly reduce car manufacturers' liability.
7726	If these amendments are adopted, I think that we shall cause Parliament seriously to lose credibility on environmental issues.
7727	So far, we here in Parliament have been positive catalysts for environmental protection but now, if the amendments proposed by Mr Florenz and Mr Lange are adopted, we are to become a negative factor for the environment in Europe.
7728	What is more, if we reduce manufacturers' liability on this issue, this will also have serious consequences for subsequent matters in other areas, for example the forthcoming directive on scrap from computers and other electronic equipment.
7729	I would therefore recommend to Members of Parliament that we cut across party lines and vote against all the amendments to the common position which would weaken environmental standards and reduce manufacturers' liability.
7730	We shall then be able to achieve an environmentally respectable result.
7731	Mr President, this excellent directive will end the dumping of old cars, encourage recycling, and above all encourage manufacturers to design cars which can easily be recycled.
7732	Now who should pay the costs?
7733	Whatever system is adopted, ultimately the cost will be passed on to the consumer.
7734	The best way of achieving our environmental objectives is to make the manufacturers our instrument both for collecting the money and for disposing and recycling of the cars.
7735	The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals.
7736	Do not be fooled by the car manufacturers!
7737	If you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments.
7738	Mr President, Commissioner, this debate is not a technical debate, contrary to what we may think.
7739	It has become eminently political.
7740	Yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate.
7741	Today, if 314 Members of Parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers, we should be doing ourselves dishonour.
7742	In expecting consumers to bear half the cost of the recovery of end-of-life vehicles, as Amendment No 38 stipulates, even though the common position states that all recovery costs should be borne by the manufacturer, Parliament would, for the first time, not be acting as the defender of the rights of the consumers and citizens of Europe, it would be turning into mere sounding box for different lobbies.
7743	We cannot accept this. It would be a precedent which would open the door to all sorts of pressure in many other areas.
7744	It would also be the first time that the European Parliament would be weakening a Council position, whereas usually we are complaining that their position is not strong enough.
7745	The free recovery system, for example, for old vehicles and raising the percentage to be recycled will increase recycling activities and the number of jobs this generates accordingly.
7746	Thus, for the consumer, for the environment and for the new jobs to be created in recycling, the Council' s common position definitely must not be amended. It is, as it stands, perfectly acceptable.
7747	Mr President, like so many others here today, I believe this is a good measure.
7748	This is a useful measure and it is one which we all need.
7749	Most of the technical issues have been resolved.
7750	There are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved.
7751	We have arrived at the final question.
7752	In the first reading debate it was only the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee which asked this question and it was only myself as the draftsman of the opinion of that committee who posed that question in Parliament.
7753	That is quite simply: Who pays?
7754	The Council common position reached a reasonable compromise in that the manufacturers should pay a significant part of the cost, not all of it as Mr Bowis has mistakenly said.
7755	In fact perhaps as little, the lawyers tell us, as 20% or one-fifth of the cost.
7756	That is not unreasonable.
7757	If you look at the UK consumer for example, who buys a Rover, as Mr Lange has indicated or for that matter any other make of car in the UK and who has for years been paying excessive prices for those cars, over and above comparable prices in other parts of Europe, why should they pay?
7758	They have paid already.
7759	Why should the very same people as taxpayers or as future car buyers, pay again to dispose of the vehicle that the manufacturer has made the profit from?
7760	I cannot accept that.
7761	There are amendments here today that are proposing that should be the case.
7762	I cannot accept it and I will not vote for it.
7763	The responsibility for these cars lies with the manufacturer.
7764	It is the manufacturer who has to provide the infrastructure and provide a reasonable part of the cost of disposal.
7765	The common position does not preclude the possibility of contributions being made by government.
7766	The common position is a reasonable compromise.
7767	Some of the amendments today are totally unreasonable in that they take away completely the responsibility from the car manufacturer of paying a little if any of the cost of disposal of cars on the road.
7768	I cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of Europe I am voting against those amendments.
7769	Mr President, there is agreement that we must give some thought as to how we in Europe will properly deal with end-of-life cars, although in this instance the Council has not provided a model for a suitable European environment policy.
7770	It is disgraceful the way in which the German Presidency handled this matter.
7771	Firstly, Herr Trittin, the Environment Minister, was not in tune with his colleagues in the Cabinet, then Chancellor Schröder blundered in like a bull in a china shop, having no expert knowledge of this process.
7772	Mind you, even the Resolution of the Finnish Council Presidency in June was not the best result that could have been done achieved.
7773	There are certain weaknesses, the greatest of which, in my opinion, is that not enough consideration is being given to the situation of small businesses; after all, the car industry is more than just large companies.
7774	It is in the area of supply that small business plays an important role and we must not fail to also take account of the interests of those employed in small and medium-sized enterprises.
7775	For there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector.
7776	The plight of small businesses is also addressed by numerous amendments from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and also the amendments in question from our group to Article 5 concerning costs.
7777	The common position is also no great shakes from an environmental viewpoint.
7778	It fails to take in the bigger picture and when my fellow delegate from the Greens says that this is the first time that the European Parliament has toned down a common position, I really must object, because quite simply, it is not environmentally meaningful to restrict the use of modern, low-consumption cars such as the 3-litre car, which contain a great deal of plastic, by means of rigid, high recycling quotas!
7779	Consequently, we must support an amendment which at least permits exceptions in the case of particularly economical cars.
7780	The objections of the industry in this matter are certainly not without foundation.
7781	However, the arguments of the plastics and car industries would be more persuasive if a commitment were to be given to reducing CO2 levels in Europe in other sectors besides these.
7782	Mr President, we are indeed now in a very rare situation: those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the Council in their common position.
7783	In contrast to what the previous speaker said, I can say I am really proud that a common position was achieved during the Finnish Presidency to uphold environmental values.
7784	If we slide away from the common position and try to divide the recycling costs, we will be creating a loophole: we will not have created a rational, clear system in which the division of responsibilities is in order.
7785	That is why, in my opinion, the manufacturer must take the greatest share of the responsibility.
7786	Only then will we find an adequate solution to the problem, taking into consideration the fact too that the manufacturer should be encouraged to make vehicles whose parts can be recycled at the smallest possible cost in the future.
7787	Mr President, there are two issues of principle in the Council' s draft directive.
7788	The first concerns the manufacturer' s unrestricted liability to take back end-of-life vehicles.
7789	There is the risk of creating a monopoly within the car dismantling trade. This particularly applies in areas within the EU where distances are great and where a lot of small companies are involved in dismantling vehicles.
7790	I believe that, quite apart from the nature of the issue concerned, the EU' s directives should not treat small companies within the Union unfairly.
7791	Unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers would also be in danger of creating a situation in which the market for used car parts disappears, for manufacturers would have a greater responsibility to sell new parts.
7792	Yet the trade in used car parts is important, especially for those who collect and renovate older vehicles.
7793	The principle of unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers is also dubious in terms of the principles governing the market economy.
7794	It should be possible for changes to be made to companies and for the latter to be sold and wound up.
7795	They should be able to establish themselves in new markets, but also to leave old markets.
7796	To bind manufacturers by means of a liability which can extend very far back in time ill accords with a flexible market economy designed to promote development.
7797	The second principle in the Council' s common position is the retroactive element in the draft directive.
7798	It conflicts with established economic and legal principles retroactively to impose upon a manufacturer financial liability for its product.
7799	To do so also changes the owner' s liability retroactively. Over the years, a consumer may have altered the product in a number of ways.
7800	Every country within the EU now has rules governing the scrapping of cars.
7801	Some may be better than others, and some worse.
7802	In anticipation of this EU directive' s being implemented, EU countries ought however to be individually liable for scrapping vehicles in the best way possible so that the retroactive element in the EU legislation is not applied.
7803	This does not conflict with a financing model involving the building up of funds.
7804	Mr President, everyone agrees with the obvious environmental and industrial importance of the instrument in question.
7805	The common position offers an acceptable compromise but its rather delicate and precarious nature somewhat restricts the opportunities for improvement, and puts the whole directive at risk.
7806	I therefore maintain that Parliament cannot force the issue and it would be paradoxical for it to do so in the context of redefining the environmental scope of the instrument.
7807	I would remind you that car manufacturers have admitted that they can live with the directive; the costs are not excessive: recycling a car costs less than 1% of the price of a new car.
7808	Moreover, the manufacturers will not be financially accountable until 2006, when a good number of the existing vehicles will no longer be on the market. As for the remaining vehicles, we could nevertheless provide for some means of sharing costs, as is proposed in Amendments Nos 44 and 45 by Mr Lange, the only ones that seem compatible with the balancing of the common position and with the trials underway in some countries, and we should therefore support them.
7809	Mr President, this is an extremely bad directive.
7810	First of all, as my colleague Mr Bowis has pointed out, it is retrospective and that is wrong in principle.
7811	Secondly, it dumps huge costs on the European motor industry which would damage competitiveness and damage employment.
7812	In this Parliament we constantly talk about the need to promote employment and jobs in Europe and yet we constantly pass measures which will have the effect of reducing employment.
7813	I suggest to you that the directive is bad in another respect, which has not been examined well enough in this debate.
7814	It is like so much European legislation.
7815	It is far too prescriptive.
7816	It sets in stone one particular model of recycling.
7817	The production line was invented about a hundred years ago, I believe, by Henry Ford and what we are proposing to do here is to create a sort of nineteenth century production line in reverse - to dismantle vehicles, to take the pieces apart and seek to recycle them.
7818	One thing we should stop and think about is the fact that there is a very uncertain market for recycled plastic bumpers of cars.
7819	The plastics industry for the most part does not want to take these things back and cannot economically do so.
7820	There is already a very successful industry out there which is shredding cars, recovering metals and recovering energy by the incineration of the non-metallic parts.
7821	This is a very environmentally reasonable approach.
7822	It is just as good environmentally to burn old plastic as to burn new oil for energy recovery.
7823	This method of disposal of cars carries no cost and so would eliminate the whole issue of who pays because the "dead" car would actually have a small value going into the recycling and reclamation process.
7824	I would oppose this directive on the basis that it is too prescriptive, it ignores what is actually going on in the car recycling market at the moment and it sets in stone methods which are not necessarily the best environmentally, and are certainly very damaging economically.
7825	Mr President, the common position is sound, but it is up to Parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles.
7826	The Social-Democratic Group has submitted a few important proposals for improvement over the past couple of days.
7827	I would especially draw your attention to Amendment No 45, in which a choice is made in favour of laying the cost of disassembly and recycling at the door of the manufacturer, for new cars at any rate. Consequently, consideration will also be given to recycling during the conception phase and production.
7828	For the cars currently on the road, it would be reasonable to share the cost, for example by setting up a fund such as that in the Netherlands.
7829	The common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost, they should also take back end-of-life vehicles.
7830	This is a big problem in my opinion.
7831	I urge that car manufacturers should most definitely not be given the task of organising the dismantling and recycling of vehicles, as they would gain an excessive hold over the second-hand components market.
7832	They would then determine their own prices.
7833	Anyone who has been in an old car knows that this is to the detriment of the consumer and the amateur mechanic.
7834	The European consumer organisation, which has asked us to support the common position on this point, is to my mind letting the consumer down.
7835	A second argument for keeping the dismantling of cars out of the manufacturers' clutches is the cost of transport.
7836	If car manufacturers all set up their own dismantling companies, this will necessitate transporting end-of-life vehicles over long distances.
7837	This is environmentally unfriendly but also expensive and does not benefit the consumer either.
7838	I would therefore appreciate your support for Amendment No 45.
7839	Mr President, Commissioner, I have asked to speak again so that I can say a few more words at the close of this debate.
7840	If you travel to the Netherlands, you will find that every last owner can get rid of his car cost-free.
7841	You will also find that these cars are suitably disposed of, that new material flows have been opened up in order to recycle materials, that 85% of the weight of a car is recycled and that 92% of all cars in the Netherlands are recycled.
7842	This is financed by a fund to which the buyer of a new car contributes.
7843	Should this be condemned ecologically, Frau Breyer?
7844	I do not think so.
7845	The Netherlands has an exemplary model for disposing of cars as per the wishes of the directive and the issue of whether the buyer of a new car should pay or, in the case of end-of-life vehicles currently driving around, the manufacturer, has nothing, absolutely nothing, to do with ecology; it is a simple question of competition!
7846	The issue here is whether a European manufacturer should pay EUR 250 million or a Korean manufacturer, say, EUR 2 million. In terms of the people who build cars here in Europe, I am in favour of not making competition unequal but, in terms of environmental protection, I want freedom from costs for the last owner, to be financed by a special fund, and manufacturer responsibility for new cars, which will force them to assume responsibility for building recyclable cars!
7847	(Applause from the PSE Group)
7848	Mr President, the proposal we are discussing has a huge amount of advantages, mainly in the interests of preventing waste and encouraging re-use, the recovery and recycling of components and the recovery of materials, etc.
7849	I think we have tabled a sound proposal.
7850	The main thread of the discussion is about whether or not the manufacturer, the vendor, or whoever, should take the end-of-life vehicle back without any cost.
7851	I will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems.
7852	We have reached an agreement with all the parties involved. These include car manufacturers, second-hand car dealers, the federation of the car industry, the metal processing firms, shredding firms and the government.
7853	An environmental policy agreement has been signed on a voluntary basis.
7854	The car industry - and Belgium produces a great many cars- did not have any problem with that.
7855	Belgians can deliver their cars back to the vendor without any cost.
7856	In connection with this, we have noticed how - quite contrary to what has been said here to the effect that the scheme would be to the detriment of employment - a number of small businesses have taken the recycling of materials to heart and are doing very well.
7857	Some businesses have become hi-tech businesses, because they managed to recycle certain materials, even materials which are not yet included in the directive.
7858	So this means that we are developing a new sector and new employment and doing the environment a huge favour into the bargain.
7859	I am in favour of collection free of charge.
7860	It worked for us.
7861	Why would it not work elsewhere?
7862	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for an interesting debate in which many important arguments have been presented.
7863	Would you be so kind as to bear with me for a few minutes.
7864	Allow me briefly to comment on some of the assumptions and principles behind the present directive.
7865	Allow me also to begin by commenting on and responding to a couple of the most important arguments in this debate.
7866	First of all, I think I should repeat some of the basic facts which Mr Florenz and others have already mentioned.
7867	What we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the European Union, resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste.
7868	This means that almost ten million tons of waste are created by these cars, and approximately seven per cent of the latter are abandoned out in the open.
7869	Moreover, they constitute environmentally hazardous substances of the worst kind.
7870	Approximately ten per cent of lead production is to be found in cars, but also cadmium, chromium, mercury and other very dangerous substances.
7871	This is something you already know, but I would nonetheless also repeat it for the benefit of those who are listening.
7872	Cars are one of the fastest growing sources of waste we have in Europe.
7873	We know that waste from cars exists and we know how we ought to be dealing with it, and there is no excuse for not taking action.
7874	The present directive has three aims.
7875	First of all, we want to stop heavy metals from being used in the manufacture of new cars.
7876	Secondly, we want to establish the fact that the manufacturer is liable.
7877	We can no longer take care of these matters at the end of a product' s life-cycle. Instead, we should avoid creating so much waste.
7878	We should see to it that we recycle as much as possible of the various contents of a product.
7879	Thirdly, we wish to achieve the recycling objectives specified in the present directive.
7880	These are the three most important aims of the directive.
7881	This is, of course, because it is a waste of resources for us not to ensure that materials in cars are recycled.
7882	It is, above all, the manufacturer' s resources we are wasting if we do not get to grips with a car' s life-cycle.
7883	Two important questions have arisen in this regard. Yes, there are in fact more than two questions, but I want to mention just two of the most important.
7884	First of all: who should pay?
7885	And secondly: are we reducing the European car industry' s competitiveness by means of the present proposal?
7886	The first question, then, is about who should pay.
7887	The directive states that the polluter should pay and that the cost is to be borne mainly by the manufacturer in accordance with the principles to be found in the EU' s treaty concerning the manufacturer' s liability.
7888	It is nonetheless clear that the cost will be borne jointly by manufacturers and consumers.
7889	We have calculated that the cost of recycling cars does not constitute more than one per cent of the price of a new car.
7890	Do we imagine, then, that the cost would disappear if we were not to adopt this directive? No.
7891	Clearly, we shall all have to bear the cost of serious damage to the environment, but it will be very much greater.
7892	Moreover, the cost will have to be borne in the future.
7893	The cost will not therefore disappear, but now we are clarifying whose liability it is and how the cost is to be distributed.
7894	Are we therefore talking about a car industry in crisis?
7895	Is it an unprofitable industry which we are discussing and which we really have to help by not imposing more taxes upon it?
7896	Is it the case that the car industry definitely cannot afford these?
7897	Is it the case that the motives behind the proposed measures are in actual fact concerned with reducing the competitiveness of the European car industry?
7898	No, of course not.
7899	It is quite the opposite. Do you believe that consumer demand for environmentally friendly cars and more fuel-efficient cars is going to decline in the future?
7900	What kind of requirements do you think our children and grandchildren and future legislators are going to make of cars?
7901	Naturally, that they should be environmentally friendly, that they should be recyclable, that they should be fuel-efficient and that they should not pollute our environment.
7902	It is, of course, only in this way that we can create a future for the car industry.
7903	We must create forms of motive power which are not damaging to health and which are of such a kind that we can deal with the relevant waste, recycle materials and compete by means of environmentally friendly and fuel-efficient cars.
7904	The fact that we have a European car industry which has already made great strides more than properly compensates for the fact that there are, in fact, a good many cars on European roads for which they must take responsibility.
7905	The cost is not insurmountable; nor is the task an impossible one.
7906	If we develop motive power of the kind I have described, I am quite certain that market forces and commercial interests in the car industry will ensure that mechanisms develop for dealing with both the cost and the workload. These will consist of everything from insurance to sensible and effective scrapping and recycling systems.
7907	The industry itself will ensure that these systems are introduced in Europe.
7908	They will not represent an insurmountable cost for the European car industry.
7909	They will instead help industry to be in the vanguard of eventually producing environmentally friendly and more fuel-efficient cars.
7910	We must do this for the sake of the environment.
7911	The costs will not disappear. Nor will the waste disappear.
7912	But, otherwise, we must all of us, as taxpayers or citizens, foot the bill. What is more, the costs will be higher the longer we wait before taking action.
7913	That is what I should like to say by way of introduction.
7914	I also want to comment on the question as to whether there is to be any retroactive legislation.
7915	If we assume that, on average, a car has a life of eleven years, do Members, indeed does anyone, believe that we should wait for eleven years before we get to grips with this problem?
7916	Do you think that, when we legislate about chemicals, we should say that we are ignoring those chemicals which are already on the market and that we are legislating only for what is to be produced in the future?
7917	Clearly, we must consider the problem which exists here and now and the challenge presented by the existing range of cars. It is still not an insurmountable problem.
7918	We can deal with it.
7919	We already have an infrastructure. We have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars.
7920	I naturally hope that the result of today' s vote will be a good one.
7921	If I have not already done so, I would also thank Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz for the hard work he has put into this proposal on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. In fact, it is in many respects pioneering work when it comes to re-use and manufacturer' s liability.
7922	I believe it will have very positive and noticeable effects on the environment.
7923	We cannot continue to close our eyes to these matters. As I have said, we have both the knowledge and the resources to cope with these issues.
7924	After the first reading in the European Parliament in 1999, the Commission' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the Council.
7925	However, we obtained a well-balanced common position in July during the Finnish Presidency.
7926	Now, we must ensure that the present legislative process is concluded successfully.
7927	A total of 48 amendments have been tabled.
7928	The Commission can adopt 10 amendments in their entirety.
7929	Three amendments can be partially approved, and one can be approved in principle. Certain amendments concern improvements to the Commission' s proposal which we adopted as early as at the first reading or else they reintroduce into the directive such parts of the original proposal as the Council has removed.
7930	This applies to Amendment No 5, excluding section 1; 8 and 9, section 1; 10 and 12, section 3; 15, 16, 20, 22, 24 and 25. These amendments can all be approved.
7931	Amendments Nos 6 and 21 are new; the Commission can approve these.
7932	The Commission can also approve Amendment No 26 with certain editorial changes.
7933	I want to emphasise that a number of the other amendments affecting the proposal' s basic components involve a considerable watering-down of the level of environmental protection aimed at by the common position. They cannot therefore be approved.
7934	Parliament has traditionally made a major contribution to strengthening environmental legislation in Europe. It would amaze and depress me if it were not to do so today.
7935	I am very concerned about certain amendments from Parliament which bring the absolutely basic pillars of the present proposal into question.
7936	These concern, for example, the phasing-out of heavy metals, manufacturer' s liability and the requirement for recycling.
7937	I want to deal with these amendments on a group-by-group basis.
7938	Amendments Nos 4, 11, 12, 13, 28, 30, 32, 37, 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals.
7939	Amendment No 12 involves a delay of at least ten years in bringing the provision into force.
7940	Amendments Nos 13, 28, 32, 37, 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions. This would mean that the process of replacing dangerous substances would be implemented more slowly.
7941	Amendments Nos 4, 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling.
7942	The Commission considers that the type of phasing-out proposed in the common position is easier to apply from a technical point of view.
7943	Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 34, 36, 38, 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer' s liability.
7944	The compromise reached by the Council is fair but fragile. The Commission does not consider that the amendments would improve the balance without, at the same time, creating tensions.
7945	I regret the confusion which arose recently due to internal documents from the Commission being wrongly used, so creating uncertainty about the Commission' s attitude to the issue.
7946	I want to emphasise that, as early as 1997, the Commission proposed a special clause concerning manufacturer' s liability and that the Commission entirely supports the common position.
7947	This does not impose disproportionate costs upon manufacturers. Far from it.
7948	Amendments Nos 39, 40, 46 and 47 concern quantified objectives.
7949	The high level of protection aimed at by the common position would be very much undermined if the recycling objective for the year 2006 were removed.
7950	These amendments would also make the objectives awkward to deal with and difficult to supervise.
7951	Allow me also - listen carefully to what I am saying now, because I have heard this reiterated in the debate - allow me to comment on the issue of vintage and "cherished" cars as mentioned in Amendments Nos 3, 7, and 9, section 2, and 35.
7952	Such vehicles are not covered by the definition of waste and are not therefore included under the directive.
7953	So, whatever has been stated in this regard, vintage cars and motorcycles are not included under the directive.
7954	We do not consider that Amendments Nos 2 and 14 add anything to the directive.
7955	Amendment No 23 involves the Commission' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components.
7956	This is not covered by the directive.
7957	An ad hoc directive should therefore be demanded from the European Parliament and the Council.
7958	Amendments Nos 29, 31 and 41 water down the requirements concerning the dismantling of vehicles.
7959	There is a danger of Amendments Nos 31 and 41 reducing the chances of recycling plastic, tyres and glass.
7960	Finally, the Commission cannot approve Amendments Nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity; nor Amendment No 19, which the Commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage.
7961	Furthermore, Amendment No 43 does not fall within the directive' s area of applicability.
7962	Thank you very much, Commissioner.
7963	The debate is closed.
7964	We shall now proceed to the vote.
7965	Vote
7966	Madam President, as you know, the reason we are voting this report today rather than last week is because of the numerous and serious translation errors, particularly in the French version.
7967	You have received a letter of complaint from me about the number of mistakes in this report and in other reports with which I have had dealings recently.
7968	There is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on Amendment No 4.
7969	In the English version we refer to pharmaceutical and scientific organisations. In the French version that becomes 'entreprises pharmaceutiques et organisations scientifiques' .
7970	Could you please make sure that French-speaking Members of this House know that the word entreprises is not correct.
7971	It should not be in the amendment.
7972	And, again, I urge you, Madam President, to look at the standard of translation that we are receiving currently.
7973	Madam President, I would simply like to point out that during the procedure, we were not allowed either to table or, consequently, adopt amendments in the Committee.
7974	I do not know whether this is in order, and I would therefore ask you to verify the accuracy of the procedure which was followed before this report reached the House.
7975	I have taken note of your comment, Mr Speroni.
7976	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
7977	Report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference (14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS))
7978	(Parliament adopted the resolution)
7979	Joint motion for a resolution on the negotiations to form a government in Austria
7980	Madam President, we simply have a few translation problems in this area too.
7981	We consider the English version to be the original text.
7982	To give you an example, in both paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Dutch and German versions, the equivalents of the English words: "in so far as" have been omitted.
7983	This is why I would ask you to consider the English version as the original version.
7984	Thank you, Mr van Velzen.
7985	In response I shall say the same thing I said to Mrs McNally just now.
7986	I am very concerned about these translation problems which, unfortunately, we seem to be having increasingly, and I can assure you that we shall look into the matter very seriously indeed.
7987	In any case, the authoritative version is always, of course, the original language version.
7988	- (FR) I am pleased to see the excellent report on the communication from the Commission entitled 'Women and Science' .
7989	In this document, the Commission proposes to stimulate debate with a view to promoting the increased participation of women in research in Europe.
7990	This objective deserves our total support.
7991	Expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the European Union, after agriculture and the Structural Funds.
7992	The various framework programmes have enabled not only high quality scientific work to take place but also innovative cooperation between researchers in various Member States.
7993	Relatively few women, however, are active in scientific disciplines despite the excellent results they achieve in their studies.
7994	It is unacceptable for women to continue to be underrepresented.
7995	I am therefore delighted to see the proposals of the European Commission.
7996	The Commission document sets out to focus on the initiatives to be taken at Community level, especially through the fifth framework programme for research and technical development, which is quite obviously something I approve of.
7997	The goal for the years to come is to increase women' s participation to achieve a rate of 40% female participation in the Marie Curie grants, in consultative assemblies and in evaluation panels for the whole of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development.
7998	In order to do so, it will be necessary to improve discussion and the sharing of experience among the various Member States, to set up a coordinating body to implement a 'Women and Science' monitoring system within the fifth framework programme for research and technical development, specially responsible for gathering and disseminating statistics collected in the implementation of the framework programme for research and technical development regarding the rate of women' s participation in research activities.
7999	Furthermore, like the rapporteur, I think that studies must be undertaken to analyse the reasons for the gap between the number of women with science degrees and the number of women who manage to have a career in these fields.
8000	Improved analysis of the obstacles facing women will make it possible to develop a strategy to eliminate those obstacles.
8001	We will have to enlist the support of the many existing networks of women scientists and to obtain their assistance in framing a joint research policy.
8002	The European Parliament will continue to carefully monitor the implementation of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development as regards the promotion of women and to come up with ideas for the course of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development.
8003	We must incorporate the gender factor in science, research and all other European Union policies, in order to put an end to the structural discrimination which prevents women competing on equal terms in the labour market.
8004	In its communication "Women and Science" , the European Commission informs us of its good intentions of enlisting the support of women to enrich research in Europe.
8005	This is very good, and we are pleased to see it.
8006	The fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the European Union.
8007	We know that we can change this situation, in which women are underrepresented in the science sector, only by means of a policy of educational guidance which will systematically encourage a greater range of career choices for girls and, when they have obtained their degrees, by means of positive measures at the professional level.
8008	Having said this, some of our fellow Members clearly have qualms because the report by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities which we have voted on contains one point which may lead to confusion and is interpreted by some as a quota stipulating that there must be 40% female participating in research in Europe.
8009	This is patently not the case, since such a quota would not be realistic.
8010	Indeed the report does not mention the time limit for this quota to be achieved.
8011	To set my fellow Members' minds at ease and to reassure them, I have tabled an amendment to the resolution in which we simply take note of the fact that the Commission, in its communication, undertakes to make significant efforts to increase women' s participation in Community research programmes, which is, after all, a praiseworthy goal.
8012	And why should we not note that the Commission' s communication stipulates specifically that it considers a 40% minimum level to be a crucial goal for women' s participation at all levels in the implementation and management of research programmes?
8013	It is not a quota! It is a perfectly legitimate declaration of intent from the Commission, insofar as it concerns its own programmes and not those of Member States.
8014	The latter would be well advised, however, to follow the good example of the Commission, for once, and make the same efforts in their own research programmes.
8015	People must realise this!
8016	I am pleased to see that the debate on Mrs McNally' s report with a view to increasing and facilitating women' s participation in professions in research and science, met with a fairly wide consensus.
8017	On this subject, any improvement in bringing the concept of equal opportunities to bear in everyday reality is indeed desirable, and I can only welcome the implementation of a policy which would contribute towards satisfying the legitimate aspirations of women: to enjoy equal access to scientific study, to obtain positions of responsibility truly in line with their results and competence, and to have accompanying measures drawn up rapidly, enabling them to reconcile their family life and their career.
8018	This necessary realistic and pragmatic policy, however, which will have to be associated with the elimination of the practical obstacles identified as unquestionable factors in this inequality must, as far as we are concerned, necessarily be based on the idea of complementarity, which is the only one capable of justifying a proactive policy on the subject.
8019	Our thinking and our future actions must focus on respecting these values, which truly respect gender differences, not on some postulated sexual equality, which has its own intrinsic contradictions. In any event there are no grounds for resorting to the easy option of a quantitative policy, based on the use of quotas, contrary to the idea of citizenship which the Members of Parliament in the UEN Group set great store by, and whose probable consequences would be the opposite of the effect apparently sought by Mrs McNally' s report, namely women' s participation in careers in science and research in proportion with their merit.
8020	By having the opportunity to show their true merit, by eliminating as far as possible the barriers associated to the specifics of their condition as women, and not in the context of a conflict in which women seem to be attacking male privilege, women will demonstrate the benefits to be gained by facilitating a situation where their professional careers may flourish. In this way they will succeed in altering balances which are still not in their favour.
8021	Since the European Parliament chose to vote on a text that expressly resorted to the quota policy which my report for an opinion had attempted to denounce in no uncertain terms, and in spite of the general approach which I approve for the most part, I can do no other than abstain from the vote on Mrs McNally' s report.
8022	Second reading of the Florenz report (A5-0006/2000)
8023	Madam President, today in the second reading we have voted on the amendments to the Directive on end-of-life vehicles.
8024	I have rejected the entire directive, not least because Amendment No 34 to Article 12 and the amendments to Article 5/4 have not received an adequate majority here in the House.
8025	I come from a country which manufactures 50% of the cars in the EU and it is precisely the free collection of end-of-life cars which is so financially onerous and unacceptable.
8026	Here, in my opinion, the labour market is also considerably burdened by the costs arising to these companies.
8027	This cannot be a good thing in a European Union where we are ever mindful of employment.
8028	I consider that this is a serious defect and that, in principle, it does not befit our legal system.
8029	In my opinion, this directive is unacceptable for this reason.
8030	Madam President, I would like to comment on the Florenz report.
8031	I think that the vote has shown that although the common position of the Council has been toned down, the major groups here (and above all the German delegates of the major groups) have not, thank God, succeeded in destroying the heart of the directive, namely manufacturer responsibility.
8032	Unfortunately, there has been a toning down of the effective ecological material flow policy, i.e. through the obligatory risk assessment of materials whose harmful effect on health has been known for years.
8033	We know that lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium present high toxic and health risks and numerous Community directives have succeeded in restricting their usage without any risk assessment being made.
8034	Here, unfortunately, the European Parliament has bowed to the interests of industry.
8035	I am nevertheless extremely pleased that there was no majority for the amendments of Florenz, Lange and others who have actually sought to lever out manufacturer responsibility and make consumers solely responsible for the cost of environmentally compatible disposal of end-of-life vehicles.
8036	I found this to be an extremely shameful attempt and I am pleased that it failed, that the attempt by one large government and the delegates of a large Member State did not gain a majority, by which I mean the attempt to dominate the voting process of the European Parliament on grounds of the interests of its national industries.
8037	Madam President, although I too have spent most of my life in fast cars, I agree with my colleague, Mr Florenz, that the directive on scrapping cars must make it clear that vintage cars are not included.
8038	These splendid cars do not constitute waste.
8039	That is why I voted in favour of the amendments.
8040	Neither can we fix what the age for a vintage car should be as there are very great differences from one country' s statutes to another' s.
8041	In this way vehicles of historic value can be preserved for future generations.
8042	We cannot forget old car enthusiasts either, of whom there are more than 50 000 in Finland alone.
8043	They are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance.
8044	- (SV) The parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing, to say the least.
8045	Before the vote at the plenary sitting, new amendments have been tabled such as have already been voted down by the Committee.
8046	In the divided situation which has now arisen, we therefore consider that the Council' s wordings are the best.
8047	We need a directive in this area, and we also therefore want to avoid a complicated conciliation procedure.
8048	The directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation.
8049	It is therefore important that the manufacturer' s liability should be clear. This should not in any way be jeopardised.
8050	Today, Parliament is examining, for the last time, this text on 'end-of-life' vehicles and what is to be done with them: their destruction, a commendable intention with regard to our environment.
8051	There are, however, two considerations which must certainly be dealt with within this text.
8052	First of all, who is to bear the financial costs of this destruction?
8053	We must all ensure that it is not always the same person, i.e. the vehicle owner, who pays.
8054	He or she already pays enough in taxes for this vehicle, which is a bottomless pit in financial terms.
8055	We have recently had cause to talk about the 'polluter pays' principle.
8056	We should apply this principle rationally and calmly, correctly targeted and without ideology.
8057	Another essential point that must be included in this text is the express exclusion of vintage vehicles from its scope.
8058	One might make the claim that there is no need to state it explicitly in writing because it is an obvious point, but I feel that it is a point that should be made in writing because there is every interest in adopting clear texts.
8059	So let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry.
8060	These old vehicles are testimony to a culture and a passion which should be recognised and respected by Europe, if we are not to water down each of our specific identities.
8061	There is no lack of examples amongst European texts, and we all know how much debate and argument is caused by a lack of clarity and precision.
8062	I only need to mention the case of Directives 79/409 and 92/43.
8063	The precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis.
8064	It is not the job of the MEP to generate litigation or legal proceedings for judges in any arena.
8065	That would not be fulfilling our mission.
8066	On the contrary, we must adopt crystal-clear texts in order to limit legal disputes.
8067	.
8068	(NL) That the Florenz report has caused such a stir has been proven by the powerful lobby machine which has been set in motion by both industry and the environmental movement.
8069	I regret that the manufacturers have harangued the European Parliament and the Council with a whole ream of arguments which either cut no ice or were simply false.
8070	I dare say this because I took the trouble to go into the field and collect information from, among others, scrapyards which already recycle car components successfully.
8071	They made it clear to me that the arguments concerning lack of safety, for example, are nonsense.
8072	The car lobby was unsuccessful today and I am pleased about that.
8073	The directive remains in place.
8074	I expect that we will achieve an excellent result in the reconciliation and that the efforts to achieve a better living environment will triumph over unreasonable industrial requirements.
8075	- My party opposed this measure and the proposed amendments.
8076	There are few things more certain in life than taxes, death and pollution.
8077	However, there is also nothing more certain than EU environmental directives which have laudable intentions but which actually fail to achieve their stated objectives.
8078	When it comes to pollution, like sin, we are all against it, but from there it is a far cry from believing that just because a measure is proposed against this evil it is necessarily good.
8079	In fact, this directive, like so many others addressing environmental issues, is not good.
8080	As is so often the case, it merely provides yet another massive bureaucratic structure to control a problem, which will only serve to create more jobs for officials, and cost the motor industries and consumers a great deal of money.
8081	The one thing it will not do is solve the problem - it is a massive sledgehammer to miss a nut.
8082	No one, not least my party, could begin to disagree that recycling should be encouraged, but the best way to achieve that is to work with the market, not to create another bureaucratic monstrosity.
8083	Thus, a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amounts of recoverable material in their vehicles, to encourage private sector recycling companies, through a package of tax incentives and assistance on complying with environmental requirements, and to incentivise the use of recycled materials.
8084	Of course, these are areas where the EU does not have any jurisdiction and nor should it have such jurisdiction.
8085	However, in the absence of these powers, it should not seek to substitute a less effective measure.
8086	Instead, it should leave Member States to develop their own systems, and avoid the tendency to interfere where it is not wanted and can do no good.
8087	Berger Report (A5-0007/2000)
8088	This proposal for a directive attempts to establish conditions for the posting of workers who are third-country nationals, for the provision of cross-border services. Third-country nationals with a permanent right of residence in one Member State do not enjoy the right to freedom of movement within the European Union.
8089	Until now, the restrictions on the freedom of movement within the Union of non-Community workers have been very harsh.
8090	It is therefore a positive step that the movement of workers within the European Union is being made easier, even when they are nationals of third countries.
8091	Nevertheless, the proposal for a directive merely aims to allow them to move to another Member State when they are posted there by an employer based in their country of normal residence. This means that their scope for movement is limited to the duration of their posting and only to the Member State to which they were posted.
8092	This means that this proposal' s fundamental aim is not to resolve the problem of the restricted movement of these workers, but merely to improve the position of the companies providing services.
8093	On the other hand, for the sake of simplifying procedures some highly debatable amendments have been included in the Berger report, one example of which is the establishment of a common information service for cards issued by a body in any Member State.
8094	Berger Report (A5-0007/2000) and Berger Report (A5-0012/2000)
8095	It is with the greatest satisfaction that I welcome the two proposals for directives intended to facilitate the freedom of movement of workers who are nationals of a third country while facilitating the freedom of movement of services.
8096	Basically, these proposals introduce the EU service provision card which will in future enable almost 5 million third country nationals legally resident in a European Union Member State to provide services in other Member States, a phenomenon currently obstructed by problems such as the need to obtain visas and work permits.
8097	The first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a Member State which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another Member State on a temporary basis to provide services there.
8098	According to the terms of the directive, the employer would be simply required to request a service provision card for each employee concerned.
8099	Logically, in order to be given such a card, the employee must be legally resident in a Member States and must be covered by a social security scheme.
8100	The second proposal grants the same rights to self-employed workers who are third country nationals.
8101	While, basically, I subscribe to the European Commission proposals, nonetheless there are some conditions which may lead to confusion.
8102	That is why I am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. This will make it possible to clarify the terms and thus prevent any misreading!
8103	Other amendments are intended to simplify the administrative procedures, for example by authorising Member States to designate a single authority responsible for issuing cards.
8104	I feel an amendment of this type is essential to prevent the sort of administrative unwieldiness which too often acts as a brake on the proper application of new conditions.
8105	I can, therefore, only be delighted at the adoption of these directives thus amended. We could not really tolerate much longer a situation in which people legally resident within the European Union had to face so many problems.
8106	This goes against the fundamental principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the founding treaties of this Union.
8107	Marinho Report (A5-0003/2000):
8108	We have serious reservations about the Council' s proposed amendments.
8109	How can we talk of increasing the sphere of competence of the Court of First Instance when we know that we need to increase the number of judges in that Court because it is overstretched?
8110	The first measure would in fact cancel out the effects of the latter.
8111	Some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim, but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them:
8112	On 1 January 1995, the Council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in Article 17 of the Accession Treaty of 24 June 1994.
8113	In May 1995, during the preparatory phase of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the CFI, concerned about the persistent increase in the volume of cases, was already insisting on the need to take measures 'without which the Court would soon cease to be able to fully satisfy the principle of the proper administration of justice and to fulfil its assigned role ... in conditions likely to compromise the protection of parties subject to trial.'
8114	So what was done at Amsterdam?
8115	In that respect, nothing. On the contrary, extending the Community' s legal competence within the framework of the third pillar has increased the burden.
8116	You will agree, furthermore, that the texts adopted by this House always call for Community jurisdiction, and that includes for the Charter of Fundamental Rights which is currently being drawn up.
8117	The increase in the number of CFI judges from 15 to 21 and the opportunity it has recently been accorded to have a single judge rule on specific cases are not real solutions but mere decoys, grudgingly granted, which we have become aware of after the fact.
8118	Consequently, these proposals do not live up to the issues at stake. They represent a downward spiral which in the long term would require the number of judges to be increased to several hundred.
8119	We cannot agree to this, since such a sidelong shift towards a Europe of the Judges is detrimental to the proper exercise of democracy in our States.
8120	The time has come, we feel, for in-depth consideration of how to put the Community system of jurisdiction in order and to guarantee a fitting quality of justice.
8121	This question cannot be dealt with separately from the current thinking on the hierarchy of norms and the better application of the principle of subsidiarity.
8122	Is the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference not the ideal opportunity for this?
8123	Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen Report (A5-0018/2000)
8124	- (SV) The most important task of the approaching Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
8125	We therefore, of course, support the European Parliament' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference.
8126	We nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for enlargement to take place.
8127	We also argued this in November 1999, and we would therefore refer to our explanation of vote of 18 November 1999.
8128	. (FR) In the opinion which it has just adopted on the convening of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, the European Parliament calls for a "constitutional process to be launched" .
8129	This determination to override nations with a legally supranational text is also expressed in the first meetings of the body responsible for drawing up the so-called Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is really a closet constitution.
8130	It is expressed again in the unbelievable excess perpetrated by the European Parliament which today in its vote on a resolution wished to cancel out the result of the free elections in Austria.
8131	The same determination to reduce nations to the level of mere administrative regions is also evident on every page of the opinion issued by the Commission for the Intergovernmental Conference.
8132	The key idea involves making qualified majority voting the general rule while modifying the content of this qualified majority to make it a double simple majority, of States and peoples, in order to increase the Commission' s room for manoeuvre and reduce that of the minority States.
8133	Incidentally, the French will probably be interested to learn that the Commission is asking for Article 67 of the Amsterdam Treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the European Parliament.
8134	People will remember that this article, dealing with the transfer of immigration policy to the Community level, stipulated that for five years decisions would still be taken by unanimous vote in the Council and thereafter the Council would assess a potential opportunity to amend the system.
8135	In France, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, when this was being ratified, many members of the French parliament were reassured to hear that, in any case, the Council would remain free to choose and could retain unanimous decision-making.
8136	Well, today, the same Minister of European Affairs who drew up the Treaty of Amsterdam, who has, in the meantime, become a European Commissioner, Mr Barnier, proposes to decide, at the forthcoming IGC, that the Council will operate in these areas by majority decision.
8137	This is the type of mechanism we are continually subjected to when playing the game of European integration with the Brussels institutions.
8138	The French must be made aware not only that the purpose of all these operations is to eliminate their country as a responsible centre for decision making, but that furthermore every means will be used to extract their consent.
8139	If they yield, they are lost. For it is their very means of defence which are being eliminated one by one.
8140	.
8141	(DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted against the report on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
8142	It is crucial for us that it should be possible for this Intergovernmental Conference to be concluded before the end of the year 2000 so that there are no remaining formalities, such as the weighting of votes in the Council of Ministers and the composition of the Commission and the European Parliament, which place obstacles in the way of the enlargement of the EU.
8143	We were therefore also very satisfied with the decisions which were taken on this issue at the Helsinki Summit in December.
8144	An unduly ambitious extension to the agenda at the present time would risk delaying the enlargement process.
8145	That is something we do not want to see, and we have therefore voted against any such extension.
8146	We nonetheless very much agree with our colleagues that there is a need for transparency in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference so that people are clear as to how the work is proceeding.
8147	.
8148	(SV) We are pleased that a limited agenda has been established for the Intergovernmental Conference at the Helsinki Conference.
8149	Possible future Member States ought to be involved in, and have an influence upon, the shaping of the EU of the future.
8150	The elections to the European Parliament in 1999 showed perfectly clearly that the people of Europe do not fall in with the notion of an ever more federalist EU centred upon Brussels.
8151	With the convening of the forthcoming IGC, the process of European Union is topical once again.
8152	Once again the discussion is going to be monopolised by the Heads of State and Government. In other words, fifteen people are going to have discussions and decide, behind closed doors, on the fate of more than 350 million individuals.
8153	It is therefore easy to understand the public' s lack of interest, given the construction of Europe which is going on behind their back and in areas which are not really of concern to them.
8154	In fact, one only need look at the agenda of the IGC: the institutions, enlargement and European defence.
8155	The fact is that the prime concerns are the strengthening of executive power, the development of closer relations with liberalism in the countries of Eastern Europe and the relaunch of the militarisation of Europe, particularly by increasing military budgets.
8156	Social Europe, used as a foil by the EU, has simply been eliminated from the agenda.
8157	All this does is to legitimise the development, on the European scale, of resistance movements anxious to bring in a social charter which would harmonise workers' main claims towards the highest common denominator.
8158	This is why I am voting against the report.
8159	I voted for the resolution to adopt an opinion is in favour of convening the IGC. I did so because it sums up the philosophy of the Portuguese Presidency, which is supported by a broad majority in Parliament, of opening up the IGC agenda beyond issues strictly related to redressing the balance of power between Member States, large and small, as was originally stated when the Helsinki Council was convened.
8160	Unfortunately, in the issues covered by the resolutions on future subjects for revisions to the Treaty on European Union, nothing has so far been stated about the need to review Article 7, which deals with suspending a State in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the "founding" principles of the Union, as laid down in Article 6.
8161	As the present crisis involving Austria has demonstrated, the Union has the right to protect itself.
8162	Nevertheless, the legal mechanisms that exist in the Treaty are weak, difficult to apply politically and legally, do not define the powers of the institutions and do not guarantee fair legal treatment for processes of major importance. Suspending a state is just such a process, and is to be condemned.
8163	I therefore think that this issue should be included as a matter of urgency in the IGC agenda, and in itself this justifies a thorough revision of the Treaties.
8164	We feel that at present the central issues about convening an Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaties are far more important than the controversy taking place here about the size of the agenda. They are also more important than the controversy over the appropriateness or otherwise of formulating proposals for new issues to be covered, and more important than the controversy over the extent of Parliament' s participation in it.
8165	We feel that these issues result from the IGC' s appropriateness and its objectives, as well as from the matters which will inevitably be discussed there.
8166	We have doubts concerning the appropriateness of the IGC because we fear that the objectives actually being addressed may be far removed from the changes required to allow for the enlargement envisaged.
8167	This relates in particular to the intended agenda, particularly as regards the Amsterdam leftovers, which suggests that unacceptable inner cabinets will be created in the future. This also identifies areas relating to the second and third pillars, which tend to be reflected in an undesirable militarisation of the European Union.
8168	These are some of the basic reasons why we do not agree with the aims of the motion for a resolution now before us.
8169	- The European Parliamentary Labour Party has abstained on the final vote on the Leinen Dimitrakopoulos Report.
8170	The text is overambitious, and Britain' s Labour MEPs believe that the IGC should primarily deal with the "Amsterdam left-overs" in order to prepare for enlargement, and not expand far beyond these.
8171	There is currently a great deal of work under way in terms of reform and this must be the priority for the moment to allow consolidation and strengthening of the EU institutions.
8172	Expansion of the agenda and drastic revision of the treaties would bring with it a risk of de-stabilisation.
8173	The key factor in this text as it has been amended, is the call for a Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the treaties.
8174	In our view, this would bring with it a complex legislative burden, and it would be preferable to have a political and declaratory charter which explains to citizens what their existing rights are.
8175	Our priorities (i.e. the "left-overs" ) must be:
8176	the number and responsibilities of Commissioners
8177	weighting of votes in the Council
8178	extension of QMV in areas where it will benefit the UK and Europe (but not Treaty change, defence matters, border controls or taxation), and extension of codecision wherever QMV is extended
8179	Beyond this, we have concerns that the "flexibility" or enhanced cooperation suggestion is not appropriate at present.
8180	The provisions of Amsterdam are largely untested and allowing more scope for opt-outs could weaken the EU at the time when enlargement is being considered and applicant countries are being asked to sign up to single market and other European legislation.
8181	- (SV) In order to be able to influence developments, the European Parliament must adopt a more constructive attitude towards the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference than emerges from the present resolution, which displays far too much disappointment and negativity about the decision which the European Council made in Helsinki in December 1999.
8182	The European Parliament and its Committee on Constitutional Affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the Council decision in Helsinki, so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion, including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the European Union and their financial interests.
8183	We Swedish Christian Democrats also oppose any threats which have been made to delay the enlargement of the EU to the east if the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is not extended very considerably to include subjects in addition to those left over from the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam in 1997.
8184	The most important task of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
8185	I therefore, of course, support the European Parliament' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference.
8186	I nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for the enlargement to take place.
8187	I also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence.
8188	Joint resolution on Austria
8189	Madam President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group did not associate itself with the joint PPE/DE-PSE resolution on the political situation in Austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party.
8190	This PPE/DE-PSE resolution commends the initiative taken by fourteen Member States to apply pressure to Austria by organising a sort of diplomatic boycott.
8191	What we find most shocking is the fact that this joint intervention claims the authority of the Treaty, as if this stated somewhere that henceforth the free and democratic expression of a people could be cancelled by the will of the heads of government of neighbouring countries who in fact, in this instance, have carefully refrained from consulting their own peoples.
8192	Whatever Jörg Haider' s verbal excesses, which we of course deplore, the Austrians have made a democratic choice, and we must respect this.
8193	In our opinion, it is clear that the left wing in the European Parliament, in association with the Austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena, have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period.
8194	Although comparing Haider to Hitler is a concept without any credibility whatsoever, it has nonetheless partly achieved its purpose in unsettling some PPE/DE Members of Parliament.
8195	But, going beyond this petty political operation, what the majority in the European Parliament is afraid of most of all is that the threat to the left-right cohabitation in Austria, which caused political life to stagnate and rot, may soon spread to the European system of co-management which is producing equally appalling results.
8196	In order to prevent this threat to the system, it is ready to do anything, including overruling the outcome of free elections, including setting up a thought police, including establishing a new form of totalitarianism.
8197	Madam President, on behalf of the Members of Parliament who represent the Front national, the Vlaams Blok and the Movimento sociale italiano, I should like to ask the question: in this outrageous interference in internal Austrian affairs which the European Union has undertaken in contravention of general international law, in contravention of the Treaties, in contravention of morality, who is pulling the strings?
8198	Is this hysteria spontaneous?
8199	Is it the product of mere foolishness or, more probably, of a deliberate strategy, which is the same throughout the world?
8200	Who is imposing their will on the nations of Europe, daring to stop them choosing their own fate?
8201	Underground networks?
8202	The government of the United States, or of Israel?
8203	Or their Socialist back-up troops who, in this House, have the cheek to thrust their values down our throats?
8204	What, then, are the values of these Socialists who feathered their electoral nest in the last century by painting the idea of greater social justice in glowing colours for the benefit of the underprivileged, and who today are nothing more than the party of protected civil servants, full-time union officials and state capitalism?
8205	What are the values of the Belgian Socialist Party, which only goes from paedophilia scandals to corruption scandals, via Vandam and Agusta?
8206	What are the values of the French Socialist Party, which extorted money from all the town councils under its thumb in the Urba, Sages and Graco scandals?
8207	The party led by François Mitterrand, decorated with the emblem of Marshal Pétain' s Vichy government, the party whose leading lights have just been caught red-handed once again, living a life of luxury on the public funds embezzled from the students' mutual insurance company.
8208	I shall not even mention the instances of corruption in the Italian Socialist Party, because it does not do to kick a man when he is down, still less when he is dead and gone.
8209	I shall, however, mention the Spanish Socialist Party which has just formed an alliance with the butchers of Albacete and which settled its accounts with Basque nationalists by hiring contract killers.
8210	I shall also mention the German Socialist Party which dares to preach to us about the second world war, when it is international socialist in the way that its peers were National Socialists, still goose-stepping, the party of the Waffen SS...
8211	(The President cut the speaker off)
8212	Madam President, I had a major problem with this resolution. Finally, I abstained on the vote for a number of reasons.
8213	I was in sympathy with the EDD Group amendment, talking about rejecting the interference of the EU in the formation of governments of Members States but I had to abstain because it just followed on the condemnation of xenophobia, racism, etc. and I felt that it might be misinterpreted.
8214	However, I do wonder about the wisdom of this.
8215	Firstly, there is the question of trying to combat intolerance with intolerance and the long-term consequences of that.
8216	I also wonder about the wisdom of the EU and its reaction to the formation of the government in Austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there.
8217	At the moment it seems that the Haider Party is getting more support rather than less from the opposition by outside governments.
8218	Even America has now said that it is considering breaking off diplomatic relations.
8219	We wonder if this is actually feeding the flames of xenophobia and the parties and people that support it.
8220	I really think that people should be extremely cautious.
8221	If you want to combat xenophobia and racism, and I believe that we should, we need to look at the root causes.
8222	We need to look at the people who vote for these parties, and understand why this situation arises.
8223	It is not a situation that most people in this Parliament want, but we need to be careful about the approach we take, so that we do not in the end up with the opposite of what we are trying to achieve.
8224	Madam President, I strongly refute any statement, demonstration or feeling of xenophobia or racism.
8225	I passionately defend Europe' s heritage of human rights and the rule of law.
8226	I disagree, however, for this very reason, with the senseless actions taken by the Presidency - the Portuguese Presidency unfortunately - which have resulted in a real institutional blunder on behalf of the other fourteen States.
8227	This is not the way to fight extremism.
8228	It may even be a way of doing extremism a great deal of good.
8229	The torrent of confusion and rash actions that has been unleashed over Austria has blown things out of all proportion. It has caused considerable distress to decent citizens and evokes risks that had previously not even been considered.
8230	There is an irreconcilable contradiction between positions adopted in the name of human rights and the rule of law, but which at the same time attack the fundamental rights of the Austrians and ride roughshod over the basic tenets of the rule of law, in this case the standards laid down in the Treaties.
8231	What are we actually seeking to achieve in embarking on an Intergovernmental Conference?
8232	A Europe of 27 States or a Europe of 14, or even fewer?
8233	We support Europe, a Europe which does honour to all the actions that have brought us to this point, a Europe which respects the Treaties and the law and a Europe which needs Austria.
8234	This needs to be said!
8235	Madam President, I am delighted and proud that this Parliament has, by an enormous majority, condemned the formation of the coalition in Austria incorporating Mr Haider' s Freedom Party.
8236	Mr Haider has demonstrated, over the past years by both words and deeds, that he deserves to be excluded from normal democratic discourse.
8237	Not only has he admired Adolf Hitler, praised the Waffen SS, and refused to condemn a terrorist bombing that killed four Roma, but also in Carinthia has been a member of the regional government.
8238	He has led efforts to end provision for Austria' s Slovene-speaking minority and assistance to immigrants.
8239	Some have said it is not right for us to interfere in Austrian politics.
8240	They are wrong.
8241	European Union Treaties make it incumbent on us to protect fundamental rights.
8242	Some have said we have to accept the results of democratic elections.
8243	However, democratic elections do not make democrats of those who have threatened democracy.
8244	There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust, the death of 6 million Jews, to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s.
8245	However, we should not condemn Mr Haider for ambition.
8246	Leopards do not change their spots.
8247	The real culprits are Austria' s Christian Democrat acting as Judas goats to resurrect a threat to Europe that we thought had died Berlin in 1945.
8248	Madam President, we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party in Austria, which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part, and which sends our support to anti-racist groups within the democratic majority of the Austrian people.
8249	We warn that this coalition, if it is formed today, unacceptably legitimises the extreme right, directly in contradiction with the principles of peace and reconciliation, which bring us together in this European Union.
8250	These are the values which we ask of others who seek to join us.
8251	This European Parliament requires the European Commission to be vigilant of any racist action in Austria, and threatens to suspend Austria from membership of the European Union if this happens.
8252	I am proud to support such a resolution.
8253	Though our proposal to withdraw political invitations to any Austrian government representative to this European Parliament has not carried today, I give notice that we will further this proposal to ensure that any action within the powers of this European Parliament to combat the return of neo-Nazis to government in Europe can and will be taken.
8254	I shall take the floor very briefly, Madam President.
8255	I respect Parliament' s wish, as it has been expressed, but I must also say that the self-determination of peoples cannot be called into question, even by the European Parliament.
8256	The document is unfair both to Austrian Members of the European Parliament, and to members of the Austrian national parliament, and it smacks slightly of jealousy and political interests, but also of business.
8257	I do not believe that these signals will change the citizens' indifference to Europe.
8258	The Austrian extreme right has been gifted an unwarranted present.
8259	I very much welcome the position taken by the Italian Radicals; and I say this while making a clear historic and material distinction between Italian liberals and Austrian liberals.
8260	I have for many years, in word and deed, been committed to the anti-fascist struggle and the struggles for equal rights and against xenophobia.
8261	However, recent events - firstly, what were really threats by the Council of Ministers, then Mr Prodi' s threats against the Austrian Commissioner and, finally, the present decision - are things I cannot support.
8262	I have not been able to vote in favour of the present decision even though I agree with many of its premises.
8263	What we have here, first and foremost, is an incredibly ominous mixture of power, arrogance and impotence on the part of the European Union.
8264	Not only do these decisions conflict with the Treaty and apportion to the institutions of the Union more power than that to which they are entitled but, worst of all, their effect will be counter-productive.
8265	They will not weaken Mr Haider and the FPÖ. On the contrary, they will strengthen them.
8266	We shall obtain the very opposite of what we want.
8267	That is not how you combat racism and a swing to the right.
8268	.
8269	(DA) The Left' s Members of the European Parliament attach importance to the fact that, with today' s decision, Parliament has NOT supported the fourteen prime ministers' diplomatic sanctions against Austria.
8270	The Left' s Members of Parliament therefore supported the Liberal decision' s powerful rejection of any form of xenophobia in Austria or elsewhere.
8271	We attach crucial importance to applying, if necessary, the new provisions under Article 7 of the Amsterdam Treaty so that a country which, by its actions, infringes fundamental citizens' rights by means of discrimination and such like will have its voting rights in the EU' s Council of Ministers removed.
8272	- (EL) The Freedom Party' s participation in the Austrian Government is a dangerous development for the European Union' s political future.
8273	It is a 'Trojan horse' which is unfortunately reappearing in Europe larger than ever since the Second World War.
8274	The European Parliament and the Union' s governments must politically isolate a government that includes admirers of Nazism and advocates of xenophobia.
8275	The European Union bears a large measure of responsibility - and along with it the two dominant political movements, the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats - because, by their dogmatic adherence to the harsh financial policies of EMU, their dislocation of the welfare state and their deification of uncontrolled competition, they have pushed broad strata of society to the limits and made it possible for right-wing extremists of the Haider type to recruit support for their neo-Nazi ways.
8276	In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament do not permit us to table our own resolution condemning Haider' s party, as well as all the parties throughout Europe which disseminate racist slander and which are xenophobic and hostile to immigrant workers, we voted in favour of the compromise resolution.
8277	We did so even though we did not agree with some of its recitals or terms, in order to show our solidarity with all those in Austria itself who are opposing the Austrian extreme right and its demagoguery.
8278	Our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution, their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious.
8279	Some of these parties, despite declaring themselves to be republican and democratic, adopt the demagoguery of the extreme right, either out of connivance or as a vote-winning ploy, if only in openly and hypocritically blaming the immigrant workers in our countries for unemployment, and generally making their lives more difficult.
8280	More generally, those signatories who take part in or have taken part in government in the various States of the European Union must take their share of responsibility in the influence which the extreme right has managed to gain since their policy, devoted exclusively to the interests of big business, has not included taking action likely to eradicate unemployment and the poverty it engenders, and has thus facilitated the xenophobic demagoguery of the extreme right.
8281	This week we heard the first political cry of the new-born Europe.
8282	By staunchly and speedily denouncing the participation of Jörg Haider' s xenophobic and anti-European party in the Austrian government, a situation without precedent since the second world war, the European Union has come into its political birthright and has confirmed that it is not merely an economic and financial Community, a large market, a "Europe of shopkeepers" .
8283	It is a part of its future which is at stake right now, part of its very essence, its heart and soul.
8284	The European Parliament was the first to speak up.
8285	The appeal by the European Socialists, on the initiative of Olivier Duhamel, raised awareness and enabled there to be a firm and immediate political response to this unheard of and intolerable situation. A firm attitude which the 14 European States have demonstrated unanimously and promptly, through Mr Guterres, by condemning the risk of the Austrian political situation getting out of control.
8286	This courageous stance turns a new page in the construction of Europe.
8287	A return to the roots, at last, for a Community built on the basis of the determination to turn our backs on a past history marred by hatred and exclusion and of adherence to the humanist values of openness and tolerance.
8288	Europe has managed to stand up to condemn unacceptable events.
8289	However, as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will, since the sanctions stipulated under Article 7 of the Treaties are virtually impossible to apply, will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure?
8290	The whole credibility of Europe is at stake today, before we invite the recent and still vulnerable democracies of the former eastern bloc to join us tomorrow.
8291	From now on Europe must put its words into action if it wishes to show the world the scope of its rediscovered ambition.
8292	At this time when we are voting on a joint resolution against the inclusion of neo-Nazis in the government of a European Union Member State, I must express my regrets regarding a compromise text which is particularly lacking in backbone.
8293	I am voting in favour of it because it is inconceivable that the European Parliament, after its excellent political debate yesterday, should not adopt a stance on this matter.
8294	Personally, however, I shall continue to fight against the extreme right, to urge people to sign a petition to demand measures which may go as far as the exclusion of Austria, and to organise a major public demonstration in Lille on Saturday at 3 p.m.
8295	Fascism and neo-Nazism are cancers!
8296	The foul monster has been reawakened!
8297	For me there is no question of allowing them to develop and to flourish without fighting with all our might.
8298	Europe was born out of a desire for peace, freedom and tolerance.
8299	There is no question of it allowing xenophobic, racist and anti-Semitic ministers to be tolerated at within it.
8300	Do not count on me to keep quiet, without doing or saying anything.
8301	In yesterday' s debate in the European Parliament some Members of this Parliament expressed worry that we were interfering in the internal affairs of a Member State.
8302	Such a concern is misplaced.
8303	The European Parliament has never been slow to comment on developments in Member States with which they disagree.
8304	We have condemned Basque and Irish terrorism.
8305	We have opposed racism and the infringement of the rights of minorities.
8306	It is our responsibility as a parliament, particularly as the democratically elected voice of the European Union, to comment on current political developments in Austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament.
8307	By commenting and making our views known we are not preventing any party in Austria from forming a coalition government.
8308	We are nonetheless, as is our right as well as our responsibility, telling them that if they go ahead then there are consequences arising from such a decision and in fact we are warning them beforehand.
8309	Others would argue that we should suspend judgement until we see the detail of such an agreement.
8310	Such a view is not only a political cop-out, it is positively dangerous.
8311	In reaching an agreement with Jörg Haider and his party, the Austrian Christian Democrats would at a stroke be confirming political respectability on right wing extremism and also giving them access to power - both of which they will utilise as a launching pad for even greater electoral success.
8312	That is why the European Union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in Austria.
8313	- (SV) We have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism. We have also voted in favour of the resolution in protest against the detestable politics that Jörg Haider stands for.
8314	We are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 Member States have employed on this issue.
8315	The resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the Member States' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty.
8316	What is also missing is a paragraph concerning the EU' s shared responsibility for the social and political developments in Europe and Austria which have been among the prior conditions for Mr Haider' s electoral success.
8317	Today, as previously in the history of Europe, right-wing extremism is the result of insecure social and economic conditions of life.
8318	The policy of cut-backs which has followed in the wake of adjusting to EMU has promoted the successes of right-wing extremism.
8319	A radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in Europe.
8320	- (DE) I am making this statement on behalf of the CSU.
8321	It is intolerable that the EU should involve itself in the formation of the government in a Member State.
8322	It has no right to do so.
8323	Instead of prematurely condemning the FPÖ and the Austrian Government which is being formed, there should first be a critical examination and assessment of the governmental declaration and the party programme and policies of the coalition.
8324	Only after such critical appraisal of the future policies of the parties involved in the coalition discussions can a decision be made as to whether this government is contrary to the democratic spirit of Europe.
8325	This does not mean that we sympathise with Haider.
8326	The CSU European delegates have no sympathy whatsoever with the leader of the FPÖ.
8327	However, as politicians we must ask the question why 27% of the Austrian population voted for a party such as the FPÖ at the elections in October 1999.
8328	We must concern ourselves with the reasons for this and try to deal with the reasons behind such results.
8329	Only by tackling the arguments and policies of the FPÖ can we prevent a radicalisation of Austrian politics.
8330	However, the resolution of the European Parliament does not question the reasons for the outcome of the Austrian vote and offers no options for resolving the problem.
8331	For these reasons the CSU European delegates are against this resolution.
8332	"He knew what those jubilant crowds did not know but could have learned from books: that the plague bacillus never dies or disappears for good; that it can lie dormant for years and years in furniture and linen-chests; that it bides its time in bedrooms, cellars, trunks, and bookshelves; and that perhaps the day would come when, for the bane and the enlightening of men, it would rouse up its rats again and send them forth to die in a happy city."
8333	It is with these phrases that Albert Camus, at the close of the long allegorical novel describing the difficult fight of the citizens of the town of Oran against the plague, reminds us, at the close of the Second World War, that the fight against Nazism, "the brown plague" as it was termed at the time, could not enjoy a definitive victory.
8334	That because racial hatred, xenophobic violence, fear and rejection of what is different, have deep roots in all that is basest in humanity, they may re-emerge at any moment and take over any group of human beings.
8335	In this light, the events we are seeing in Austria must be seen as tragic.
8336	For the first time since the Second World War, a party which is openly pro-Nazi, racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country.
8337	Confronted with this threat, which carries with it the negation of the very idea which lies at the heart of the construction of Europe, nothing must deter us: not the legal quibbling about what the treaty does or does not permit, not the legitimate questions about the right to intervene, not the derisory respect for formal democracy, and, above all, not the feeling of powerlessness which grips us in the face of an event which we reject with all the force of our convictions but which we are powerless to control.
8338	As the representative for a French overseas department, the island of Réunion, a land of racial and ethnic intermixing, where the population has been forged in the course of the last three centuries by the successive contributions of Europeans, blacks from Africa or Madagascar, enlisted men from India or Pakistan, or even Chinese, every day I experience the profound truth of the remark by Saint-Exupéry, "In being different to me, you are not doing me harm, brother, but enriching me!"
8339	This human diversity is our main sources of wealth, and this is the reason why it is my duty to track down and to condemn anything which may be harmful to it, wherever it may exist.
8340	For all these reasons I voted most decidedly in favour of the resolution before this House on the formation of the government in Austria.
8341	Jörg Haider' s rise to power, with the inauguration of a conservative right-wing and FPÖ coalition government, is a sign of the terrible revival in Europe of a monster to which liberalism has given birth.
8342	The success of the Austrian Freedom Party owes as much to the endorsement of respectability provided by the Austrian right wing and social democrats as to the policy of the latter, whose social disasters paved the way for extreme right-wing populism.
8343	The resolution stipulates possible diplomatic means to isolate the new government politically without even mentioning the root causes of the resurgence of Fascism. It can be explained by the feeling of helplessness of the people who are the victims of the ideology of mighty Mammon and by the choice of the ruling classes to promote strong government in order to take their policies of austerity and deregulation ever further.
8344	In order to oppose the xenophobic statements of an apprentice dictator who is nostalgic for the Third Reich, we must take every opportunity we can to express our solidarity with the Austrians opposed to Fascism.
8345	This is why we are voting in favour of this resolution in spite of its hypocritical references to a 'European democratic model' which bears more resemblance to a fortress which tracks downs, expels and imprisons immigrants without the proper papers, when it is not opening files on teenagers.
8346	- (DE) I have just voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in Austria in view of a possible government being formed between the ÖVP and the FPÖ.
8347	I consider the casting of Jörg Haider as "Europe's scapegoat" (or even worse, neo-Nazi and Super Racist) to be counterproductive.
8348	Of course I, in no way, agree with the publicised statements of this right-wing populist and fully condemn xenophobia and any downplaying of the Hitler regime.
8349	However, I fear that a purely emotional reaction by Europe to the events in Austria will only multiply Haider's adherents.
8350	The EU must not do him an invaluable PR service.
8351	The strength of the FPÖ can be traced back to the weakness of the previous government and in this the Austrian socialists must bear the main responsibility.
8352	It was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the FPÖ to tolerate a minority government and, obviously in vain, offered the Freedom Party ministerial posts, that the SPÖ begin its massive campaign against Haider.
8353	It turned its threatened loss of power into an "heroic battle for the preservation of values" and an imminent, pure-and-simple "decision between democracy and non-democracy" .
8354	This is a smear on the voters in my neighbouring country which I cannot condone.
8355	We German Christian Democrats used another strategy in the battle against extremists and clearly disassociated ourselves from them.
8356	We revealed the hollowness of the republicans who were nationalistic, xenophobic and anti-minority.
8357	Today the republicans are no longer represented in most local parliaments.
8358	The German approach is no guarantee that this radical movement will not grow again.
8359	It cannot be copied arbitrarily since each Member State has its own specific conditions.
8360	The ÖVP (Austrian People's Party), whose presence at European level we have also come to take for granted, is daring to attempt a coalition for the sake of governability in Austria.
8361	It can only succeed if agreements are made which are solidly based on compliance with democratic principles.
8362	The Council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government.
8363	This condemnation is as unacceptable as the threatened breaking off of official contacts with the Austrian Republic.
8364	Sound democracy means being alert and not blind in one eye.
8365	We must take up a reasoned offensive against radicals on both the right and the left.
8366	I would have liked to see the same outrage in Europe when the socialists were prepared to make common cause with the successors to the misanthropic and persecutory regime in the DDR.
8367	In the meantime, they have been forming governments in German federal states.
8368	I fully support the statements made by Commissioner Prodi in today's session.
8369	He spoke of the task of not isolating Member States but of doing everything to unite them in common European values.
8370	- (FR) I voted against the joint resolution on the situation in Austria.
8371	Austria is a free, independent and sovereign country.
8372	Consequently, neither the Council, the Commission nor the European Parliament has the right to interfere in the internal administration of a Member State.
8373	The Austrian elections were held in a free, proper and democratic manner.
8374	Any interference by the European institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable; it is in violation of the European Treaty (Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam).
8375	Nevertheless, these same institutions showed no reluctance to accept Turkey as a candidate for membership of the European Union, despite its well-known human rights violations.
8376	Nothing of this nature has yet occurred in Austria.
8377	On the one hand, the political excommunication of Austria only demonstrates the worrying influence of conformist thought. On the other hand, if tomorrow the governments of European Union Member States must first receive not the confidence of the nation but the endorsement of supranational bodies, then the very principle of democracy will be destroyed.
8378	In such circumstances will it even be worth having elections?
8379	This is not the way to create the conditions for the nations of Europe to live together in harmony and to be able to cooperate to achieve a shared future.
8380	- (FR) The vote which has just taken place in this Chamber is a historic one for it is the first time we have ever debated the internal political situation of one of our Member States with such anxiety.
8381	I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated.
8382	I urge the Council and the Council Presidency to continue to protect the fundamental values of the Union.
8383	I urge the Commission to be less cautious.
8384	In this resolution, Parliament is assuming its responsibilities.
8385	Having said that, in my opinion, the resolution adopted today is the absolute minimum, the very least we could do.
8386	Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line, and I supported Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8, as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.
8387	In fact I consider it essential for the Council to accept only purely technical relations with the representatives of an Austrian Government which includes members of the Austrian Freedom Party.
8388	Including Jörg Haider' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in Europe, and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other Union Member States or in candidate countries.
8389	The Austrian People' s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this.
8390	It is our fundamental values which are at stake here.
8391	As the democratically elected representatives of the European people, we have no choice.
8392	We must reject what is unacceptable, as our constituents demand.
8393	Because, when the spectre of barbarism resurfaces, failure to oppose is tantamount to capitulation.
8394	I abstained in the vote on adopting the resolution.
8395	I condemn Jörg Haider' s racist and xenophobic policy.
8396	However, I cannot accept that an EU body should intervene politically in the internal policy of one Member State.
8397	I cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution, and I cannot vote in favour of the resolution, even though it would be a vote against the extreme right.
8398	- (SV) Obviously, the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party.
8399	The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State, just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority.
8400	Finland' s experience, however, is that integration, rather than isolation, is the better way of combating antidemocratic forces.
8401	I therefore voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution, which presupposes that all parties have respect for human rights.
8402	The EU Presidency' s "common reaction" against the formation of the government in Austria is legally unjustified. The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States.
8403	Nor should we isolate the forces in Austria which wish to work for human rights.
8404	Despite these objections of mine to the Council' s action and despite my view that it is better to work for integration than to employ isolating tactics, it was important to show clearly where the European Parliament stands on questions of racism, which is why I voted in favour of the resolution at the final vote.
8405	That concludes the vote.
8406	Adjournment of the session
8407	I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
8408	(The sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
8409	Resumption of the session
8410	I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000.
8411	Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
8412	The Minutes of the sitting on Thursday 3 February have been distributed.
8413	Are there any comments?
8414	I can see from your reaction that many of the Members of Parliament have not received the Minutes and clearly you cannot approve Minutes which you have not seen.
8415	I therefore propose to submit the Minutes for your approval tomorrow morning, since obviously you do not have them and I must apologise for this.
8416	I shall therefore postpone the approval of the Minutes.
8417	Madam President, on a point of order.
8418	The BBC this morning reported that a British Member of this House, holding a senior position within his delegation, continues to offer strategic advice to private clients, but does not state in the Register of Interests who these clients are.
8419	The people of Europe have a right to expect their representatives to keep the public interest separate from private profit, but they can only be sure that this is being done in all cases if the information is both publicly available and easily accessible.
8420	Madam President, since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors, may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and, above all, to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House, but is also published on the Internet?
8421	Thank you, Mr Davies.
8422	I shall look into this matter with the College of Quaestors.
8423	Madam President, on a point of order.
8424	As this is the first Valentine' s Day of the new millennium I hope that you will agree with me that it would be fitting for this House to mark this day by making a firm commitment to tackling heart disease, the biggest killer in the European Union.
8425	I would urge Members to sign up to the commitment made today at the Winning Hearts Conference that every child born in the new millennium has the right to live until the age of at least 65 without suffering from avoidable cardiovascular disease.
8426	Happy Valentine' s Day!
8427	Madam President, I rise under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and allude to the same point raised by Mr Davies about the very serious allegations made on BBC radio this morning.
8428	I would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two Members who were named in this particular BBC interview are not running their companies from this Parliament or from parliamentary offices, because that would be a very serious matter indeed.
8429	In the past the British Conservatives' double standards have brought the United Kingdom' s House of Commons into disrepute, and there is a very real danger that such behaviour would have a similar impact on this Parliament.
8430	Thank you, Mr Murphy.
8431	As I informed Mr Davies, I promise to look into this matter this very evening with the quaestors.
8432	Madam President, on a point of order.
8433	I have already written to you on a number of occasions concerning how points of order are raised in the House.
8434	I wonder on what point of order Mr Davies was speaking.
8435	Why did he not mention the fact that one of his own Liberal colleagues also has a consultancy that is under investigation by the BBC?
8436	Is this House going to let its agenda be determined by scurrilous reports on a programme which bases its news items on lies, or is it going to get down to serious work and address the challenges facing Europe?
8437	Gentlemen, obviously the quaestors who look into this matter are not going to be basing their assessment just on information from radio programmes.
8438	They will look into the matter thoroughly.
8439	Madam President, I believe I am expressing the feeling of a great number of Members of Parliament in most of the political groups when I say that the message which the President of the Commission sent to the new Austrian Chancellor a week ago created some unease.
8440	Was it in fact necessary in this message to specifically offer his best wishes for success, or to say, "I am sure that you will demonstrate the same commitment as shown by your predecessors to liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms" , or indeed that he awaited productive and constructive cooperation?
8441	This is why, Madam President, I should like to see Mr Prodi clarify tomorrow exactly what significance he meant to give these words, so that nobody, absolutely nobody, can use this message, which is unusual and unwise, to say the least, to contribute, and that includes counter to the intentions of Mr Prodi, towards making the dangerous political operation taking place in Austria a commonplace.
8442	Thank you, Mr Wurtz.
8443	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to start a debate at this point. This was just a procedural motion.
8444	Let me remind you, Mr Wurtz, that we shall be seeing Mr Prodi tomorrow. He is going to make a statement on the Commission' s programme.
8445	Naturally you will be perfectly free to ask him questions in the speeches you make following this statement, just as Mr Prodi will be perfectly free to answer you.
8446	I suggest that you clarify this matter at that time, if you so wish and if Mr Prodi agrees.
8447	Madam President, it is with great regret that I have to trouble you yet again with an issue that I have raised here twice before.
8448	I have already told you on a number of occasions that we, on behalf of the Dutch contingency, would like a Dutch television channel.
8449	There are now 28 channels here in this Parliament, including two Greek, one Portuguese, one Finnish and one Belgian, but still no Dutch, and as many as seven English, six German and six French.
8450	I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January.
8451	It is now February and we are still waiting.
8452	I would ask you once again to work on this.
8453	I wonder what kind of mediaeval bureaucracy is at work here preventing a Dutch channel from being transmitted by satellite.
8454	Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel, let me say how disappointed I am, because I personally thought this problem had been resolved long ago.
8455	I have clearly received your series of messages on this subject and I believe that Mrs Banotti has an answer for you.
8456	I shall therefore, with your permission, give the floor to Mrs Banotti to reply to you under the procedural motion.
8457	Madam President, as my dear friend Elly will know, I will do anything to make her and my Dutch colleagues happy.
8458	I would like to assure you as quaestor in charge of this issue that we have had technical discussions about the various channels on television and radio, and I have already started mailing colleagues in this connection.
8459	If it is of any comfort to her, the Irish have not got their channel yet either.
8460	There seem to be intractable technical problems but we are definitely working on it.
8461	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify this.
8462	I am not so sure that our Dutch Members will be reassured on the grounds that the Irish Members too are unable to receive a national channel.
8463	I think we must do what we can to see that all Members can receive their own national channel.
8464	Thank you, Mrs Banotti, and also the other quaestors for your effort to achieve this.
8465	Madam President, I should like to tell Mr Wurtz that the Commission' s doctrine is not the Brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty and that, until proved otherwise, we are not in the situation where Articles 6 and 7 would be applicable.
8466	Austria, therefore, is perfectly entitled to form its government and the President of the Commission is perfectly entitled, and even duty bound, to offer Austria his best wishes.
8467	Mr Wurtz should perhaps remember that not so long ago other members of his party, the French Communist mayors, were sending bulldozers against immigrant hostels in France.
8468	Agenda
8469	The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
8470	a) Sittings from 14 to 18 February 2000 in Strasbourg Relating to Wednesday:
8471	President.
8472	In view of the fact that no Council representative is able to attend on Wednesday evening, a number of groups - the Group of the European People' s Party, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left - requested that the Council statement on the Cyprus question and Mr Brok' s report on the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta were dealt with during the joint debate and that these two items plus Mr Swoboda' s report were brought forward in the agenda.
8473	This would then give us, for Wednesday' s sitting, the two Council statements on the coherence of Union policies with development policy and on the UN 'Human Rights' sitting, followed by the joint debate on Cyprus and then the reports by Mr Swoboda, Mr Corrie, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Knörr Borràs.
8474	Is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal?
8475	Since no one wishes to speak, I shall put this proposal to the vote.
8476	(Parliament gave its assent)Relating to Thursday:
8477	President.
8478	I have received several proposed amendments relating to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
8479	On the subject of human rights, I have received two proposals for additions: one from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party for an item entitled 'Cambodia' and the other from the Group of the Greens, for an item entitled 'Pinochet' .
8480	As you know, we can only include five items in the 'Human Rights' section.
8481	According to the list given in the final version of the agenda, there are already four items.
8482	We can therefore table only one additional item.
8483	Who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to propose the addition of an item on Cambodia?
8484	Madam President, it is hugely important to the Liberal Group that we talk about the situation in Cambodia, and that this is done at this particular time, not only on account of the letter which UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has written to the government in Cambodia, asking it to take steps, at long last, to set up a special tribunal in order to call the leaders of the Khmer Rouge to account, but also because the Hun Sen regime, obviously not content with the attempted assassinations of the leader of the opposition, Mr Sam Raninsy, has now considered that his parliamentary immunity should be lifted to boot, so that he can simply be brought before the court.
8485	The international community has asked for justification for what is happening in Cambodia.
8486	After all, we approved the elections in Cambodia, in what was one of the biggest fiascos on the electoral observation front.
8487	Only this Parliament has emerged with some of its credit intact.
8488	I think that we, as a Parliament, even now have to assume our responsibility and speak out on the situation in Cambodia.
8489	(Parliament gave its assent) President.
8490	The item on Cambodia is therefore added to the 'Human Rights' section. This renders the proposed item on Pinochet null and void.
8491	In addition, I have received some proposals for subjects to be included in the topical and urgent debate.
8492	Here we are not adding any more sub-items under the 'Human Rights' heading, we are introducing new items.
8493	There are three proposals: one proposal from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left to add an item entitled, 'Moratorium on the death penalty in the United States and the case of Betty Beets' ; a second proposal from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to add an item entitled, 'The Pinochet affair' ; and a third from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for the inclusion of a new point, 'Environmental disaster in the Danube' .
8494	In view of the time available given that, as you know, we have a Commission statement on the restructuring of business and that the current list already includes two items, we can only add two additional items.
8495	I shall take the proposal from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left first.
8496	(Parliament rejected the proposal)
8497	President.
8498	We will now take the proposal from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
8499	Is there anyone to speak in favour of this proposal?
8500	Madam President, it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet, despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued.
8501	Since the Belgian Government' s appeal to a higher court was declared admissible last week and since the decision has essentially not yet been taken, it is important for Parliament to at last give out a strong message, a message which should signify that nobody can escape a just trial.
8502	It is inconceivable that the European Parliament, which quite rightly pays so much attention to respecting human rights, should fail to adopt a clear stance on this.
8503	Madam President, this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time.
8504	Firstly, the European Parliament has already expressed its opinion on the subject of General Pinochet, but, furthermore, there are certain questions to be borne in mind.
8505	The first is that this matter is sub judice in several European countries, and I would like to remind Members that there is still no European judicial area nor a European legal system.
8506	We are in favour of the International Criminal Court, but it does not yet exist.
8507	Secondly, there is currently a democratically elected government in Chile, led by Ricardo Núñez, whose first declaration was that all those who have committed this type of crime must face justice, and I would remind you that the Chilean justice system, which is independent, is currently examining 60 complaints lodged against General Pinochet, concerning his crimes against humanity.
8508	I believe that this is a serious issue which we are obliged to follow up, but it should not be dealt with by means of urgent procedure.
8509	We believe that justice should be done in this case, but this is not the most appropriate procedure.
8510	(Parliament rejected the proposal) President.
8511	We now come to the third proposal which is for 'Environmental disasters in the waters of the Danube' , a proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
8512	Is there a Member who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
8513	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what has occurred in a tributary of the Danube is considered by many experts to be an accident on an environmental scale as serious as the scale of the Chernobyl disaster.
8514	It affects not only Romania, but also Yugoslavia and, in fact, the entire Danube basin.
8515	We consider the matter to be important enough for the Commission to react swiftly to this situation, and I think that Parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject.
8516	(Parliament gave its assent) President.
8517	Still relating to Thursday' s sitting, the PPE Group has requested that Mrs Cederschiöld' s report on increasing protection by penal sanctions against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro should be brought forward to Wednesday as the last item on the agenda.
8518	Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PPE in favour of this proposal?
8519	Madam President, the agenda has been rearranged so many times that I would simply ask the Chamber to support the present proposal.
8520	It is not a very time-consuming matter, but it is extremely important that it should get through Parliament now and that there should be no delays.
8521	It is in fact about protecting the euro against counterfeiting, which is an extremely urgent matter.
8522	We have tried to drive this proposal through. I should therefore be very grateful indeed if the Chamber could support it.
8523	(Parliament gave its assent)
8524	Relating to Friday: President.
8525	Relating to Friday, on Friday morning we have an oral question on postal services and the Group of the Party of European Socialists is requesting that the motions for resolutions should be put to the vote immediately after the debate and not in Brussels, as envisaged in the final version of the draft agenda.
8526	Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PSE Group in favour of this proposal?
8527	Madam President, with apologies to my friend, Enrique Barón Crespo, I should like to speak against this proposal.
8528	I am surprised it has even been made, because we came to an agreement following an exchange in the Conference of Presidents.
8529	I think that your proposal, Madam President, to keep the debate and the vote separate, with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date, is a reasonable one. The reason is as follows: this issue concerns no less than 1 800 000 employees within the European Union.
8530	We already have a directive. It is not an old one, it was issued in 1997.
8531	Deciding upon future policy lines, with a view to a new directive, rather hastily, without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners, I feel, runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators.
8532	I propose, therefore, that we should keep the arrangements as per the agenda, with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date.
8533	Madam President, I clearly owe Mr Wurtz an explanation, and I am going give this explanation before the whole House.
8534	We had reached this agreement on principle in the Conference of Presidents.
8535	At the time, I did not know that Commissioner Bolkestein was going to appear next week before the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism to discuss this matter.
8536	My group has debated this matter and considers that, given the current situation of the whole process of market integration and deregulation in such a sensitive area, it is appropriate that Parliament makes an initial statement, regardless of any action it may take in the future, so that Commissioner Bolkestein may take good note and in order to guide next week' s debate.
8537	Madam President, I should simply like to ask Mr Wurtz to take a second look at what this is about.
8538	It has nothing to do with any disputes on the substance; it is just about the following question: when will the Commission - having already had a year and a half to do this - finally be in a position to table the directive?
8539	Our sole intention in tabling the motion is to ensure that the deadlines which were promised are now finally adhered to, and it is therefore important that we act as quickly as possible.
8540	That is why I should like to support the Social Democrats' request to hold the vote on Friday.
8541	(Parliament gave its assent)
8542	Madam President, as you know the Cederschiöld report has been taken off Thursday' s agenda.
8543	That ought to mean that we have more time on Thursday.
8544	Since we will be very pressed for time in the topical and urgent debate, in view of the many matters to be addressed in an hour and a half, I simply wanted to ask whether the sessional services might not check to see whether we could have an extra half an hour for the topical and urgent debate so that there is sufficient speaking time.
8545	In general the way in which sittings have been managed in recent weeks seems to me to have been very chaotic.
8546	Last Thursday speaking times were extremely tight and then suddenly we had between one and one-and-a-half hours when there was nothing on the agenda and we had to wait for the vote.
8547	On Friday of this week we have one single item on the agenda.
8548	That is absolutely absurd.
8549	I really should like to ask that a review be carried out of the way in which sittings are managed.
8550	This sounds perfectly feasible.
8551	We shall therefore see if we can extend the urgent debate by a half hour, considering the withdrawal of Mrs Cederschiöld' s report.
8552	This is all I am talking about here, just that.
8553	Madam President, I would like to talk about an item on the agenda for Wednesday, which you have not yet announced.
8554	I understand that there is no argument about the fact that the Council declaration, on the next sitting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, is not going to include the declaration on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, and that this declaration has been proposed for the plenary part-session in March, so that it may be delivered in a solemn and formal way.
8555	I understand that there is agreement on this issue.
8556	Madam President, this afternoon, in this Chamber, reference was made to a series of reports on the BBC Today programme this morning, which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as Members of this House.
8557	These are serious allegations.
8558	They are completely untrue, malicious, politically biased and were broadcast in the full knowledge of their falsehood.
8559	We are taking legal advice. My colleagues' register of interests is complete.
8560	If we find that any Member of this House or their employees collaborated with the BBC in this farrago we will expose them to the opprobrium of this House.
8561	Quite, we agree absolutely.
8562	b) Sittings of 1 and 2 March 2000 in Brussels
8563	Sustainable urban development - rural development - EQUAL initiative
8564	The next item is the joint debate on the four following reports:
8565	Report (A5-0026/2000) by Mrs McCarthy, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Communication from the Commission to the Member States laying down guidelines for a Community initiative concerning economic and social regeneration of cities and of neighbourhoods in crisis in order to promote sustainable urban development (URBAN) (COM(1999) 477 - C5-0242/1999 - 1999/2177(COS));
8566	Report (A5-0028/2000) by Mr Decourrière, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Communication from the Commission to the Member States laying down guidelines for a Community initiative concerning trans-European cooperation intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the European territory (INTERREG) (COM(1999) 479 - C5­0243/1999 - 1999/2178(COS));
8567	Report (A5-0024/2000) by Mr Procacci, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the draft communication from the Commission to the Member States laying down guidelines for the Community initiative for rural development (LEADER+) (COM(1999) 475 - C5­0259/1999 - 1999/2185(COS));
8568	Report (A5-0034/2000) by Mr Stenzel, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the draft communication from the Commission to the Member States establishing the guidelines for Community Initiative Programmes (CIPs) for which the Member States are invited to submit proposals for support under the EQUAL initiative (COM(1999) 476 - C5-0260/1999 - 1999/2186(COS))
8569	Since Mrs McCarthy' s flight has been delayed slightly, I propose that we hear from Mr Decourrière first.
8570	. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners and members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I was given the task of drawing up the European Parliament' s report on the Community Initiative Programme INTERREG III.
8571	Upon referral to committee, we examined over a hundred amendments and, so far, 17 amendments, some of which have already been presented in committee, have once again been tabled.
8572	Before discussing the content of the resolution, I should like to inform you of the elements which I took account of and which guided my work as rapporteur.
8573	First of all, I would like to remind you of the function of the INTERREG Community initiative, founded on the principle of transnationality and innovation.
8574	This programme constitutes a driving force for development on the European scale.
8575	INTERREG is one of the four Community initiatives scheduled for the period 2000-2006, and is the one with the largest budget for implementation, i.e. EUR 4.875 billion as opposed to EUR 3.604 billion at the present time.
8576	The INTERREG initiative, created in 1990, is built upon the wish to make the regions of Europe ready for a 'Europe without frontiers' in the context of establishing the great single market.
8577	At the time of the reform of the Structural Funds in 1994 and 1996, the INTERREG CIP has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans-European transport and energy distribution networks.
8578	These programmes promoted cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation within the European Union by encouraging balanced development of the Community area.
8579	The INTERREG III programme, for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the European Commission, pursuant to the terms of European Community Regulation No 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, continues these measures.
8580	It is based on three strands. strand A organises cross-border cooperation between regional and local authorities in border regions, at both internal and external borders of the European Union, on the basis of joint cross-border development strategies which Member States' local and regional authorities are responsible for implementing. strand B governs transnational cooperation between national, regional and local authorities in various Member States or applicant countries regarding regional development, transport networks and the environment.
8581	Member States, i.e. national authorities, are responsible for implementing this strand.
8582	Finally, strand C organises interregional cooperation between different regions of the Member States or third countries to exchange experience under strands A and B and cooperate in the fields of research and technological development, subject to consultation with the European Commission which is responsible for its implementation.
8583	The new INTERREG programme, in the form in which we have received it, takes into consideration the needs engendered by enlargement to the countries of Eastern and Central Europe and to island regions and most remote regions.
8584	The Commission proposes redistributing the INTERREG funding as follows: between 50 and 80% for strand A, 6% for strand C, and the remainder for strand B, i.e. from 14 up to a maximum of 44%.
8585	The European Commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand A and strand B. It bases its assessment principally on the map of regions eligible during the previous programming period.
8586	The most remote regions may benefit from support under strand B. The Commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand A is not comprehensive, but is comprehensive for strand B. The Commission reserves the option to, at a later date, put forward topics it considers important to the exchange of experience and strengthened cooperation between regions, for strand C.
8587	The adoption procedure for the programmes is established by the general regulations on Structural Funds.
8588	Proposals are drawn up by Member States and are submitted for approval to the European Commission, which checks their conformity with the general guidelines, adopted.
8589	These proposals must include a number of elements, an overview of the cross-border or transnational priorities and strategies, a description of the measures necessary to their implementation and an indicative financial plan.
8590	I regret that Parliament was not informed about the appraisal of the previous programme, which would have enabled the new measures implemented to reach optimum efficiency, but I acknowledge that this was not an easy operation. I also regret the fact that we had an extremely short period to work in, as the text was examined in parliamentary committee on 24 November last year and then on 26 January.
8591	In promoting cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation, this cross-disciplinary instrument is the very incarnation of a regional policy on the European scale intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the Community territory.
8592	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture, to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services, and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life, diversification and job creation.
8593	An integrated development policy for all rural areas in the European Union is therefore needed, consisting of the following elements: an integrated, multi-sectoral approach, simplification of administrative procedures, improvement of the partnership between European institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment.
8594	In its 1998 policy paper, Agenda 2000, the Commission set out two key principles on which rural development policy should be based: the recognition of the multifunctionality of agriculture and the need for an integrated strategy for developing rural areas.
8595	The first principle means creating a new 'pact' between farmers and society, making the farmer 'steward of the countryside' and ensuring that society is prepared to pay for the environmental services needed to safeguard the countryside' s recreation value.
8596	The second principle is based on the fact that nowadays many of the job opportunities in rural areas are outside the traditional agricultural sector, so that a complete development programme which integrates rural development policies with agricultural sector policies needs to be implemented.
8597	In this way rural development is becoming a pillar of the CAP.
8598	The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs.
8599	The following objectives were set: improving the development potential of rural areas by calling upon local initiative; promoting the acquisition of knowledge in the rural development sector; disseminating this knowledge to other rural areas.
8600	LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b, and 217 local action groups participated in it, with financing of EUR 1 155 million.
8601	LEADER II (1994-1999), for which a total evaluation has, unfortunately, not yet been completed, had a wider scope than LEADER I: there were probably over 800 beneficiaries and the sums allocated, after reallocation of resources, probably amounted to over EUR 4 000 million.
8602	In October 1999, following the success of LEADER I and LEADER II, the Commission decided to extend the initiative.
8603	For the 2000-2006 period provision has been made, unfortunately, only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million, and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set.
8604	LEADER+ differs from the previous stages in that all rural areas will be eligible. It is also more ambitious, and better geared to the challenges which rural areas will have to meet.
8605	The main changes are as follows: all rural areas will be eligible to benefit from LEADER+; the selection criteria for local measures will be more rigorous; integrated local development plans will be introduced as priority themes, such as the use of information technology, improving the quality of life, and adding value to local products.
8606	I therefore approve of the continuation of the initiative because, as I was saying, it emphasises the innovative development strategies and because it is more ambitious, even though there is still the need to make the criteria by which areas qualify as rural more flexible so as not to penalise rural areas with high or low population densities.
8607	I believe the networking system to be vital for the exchange of information and skills and for the implementation of joint projects between different areas of the Union and I repeat that in order to be fully successful it must exploit inter alia measures already in existence, such as the Carrefours.
8608	I share the Commission' s preference for the use of global grants while urging, however, that the accounting requirements of national and regional authorities should be precisely and painstakingly defined.
8609	I regret the delay with which LEADER, as was the case with the other three initiatives, was presented to Parliament and for the knock-on delay this entailed for the whole procedure.
8610	Finally, I am concerned by the paucity of the amount allocated, if you consider, in addition, that this time the programme is available to all the countries of the Union and will be implemented for a year longer than the previous LEADER II.
8611	I would like to thank the Commission services for their helpfulness and cooperation, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the contribution they have made through their amendments.
8612	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my report on EQUAL takes the form of an opinion delivered as part of the process of consultation on a new Community initiative, whose objective is to promote transnational cooperation and through it new methods of combating all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market.
8613	The report was a major undertaking because it also incorporates opinions from four further committees - from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
8614	This Community initiative succeeds the two forerunner programmes ADAPT and EMPLOYMENT and has a much smaller budget of around EUR 2.8 billion.
8615	The initiative adopts a completely new approach, which is to develop innovative employment models within transnational geographical or sectoral development partnerships.
8616	The intention is clear: targeted projects are to be developed at transnational level, projects which are based on the employment policy guidelines of employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities.
8617	This objective is very much to be welcomed and also meets with a broad consensus in this House.
8618	In addition, EQUAL should feed into the National Action Plans for employment and its implementation should be able to be monitored through these Action Plans.
8619	It is an important Community initiative which, together with the three other initiatives, URBAN, LEADER and INTERREG, is financed out of the Structural Funds.
8620	In my report I have tried to reduce excessive administrative expenditure and to build greater openness and flexibility into the system of development partnerships.
8621	I consider technical support to be necessary but, given the problems with the former TAOs, no new TAOs should be set up without Parliament' s approval so as to prevent political responsibility from being passed down to the technical assistance level.
8622	Nevertheless, technical assistance is necessary.
8623	Particular attention is also paid to the dissemination of results and learning from each other by identifying best practice, with special emphasis on mainstreaming.
8624	I have endeavoured to secure the widest possible support for the report.
8625	This has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises.
8626	A compromise has now also been reached on the issue of asylum seekers.
8627	However, in this context, Madam President, to allow us to work out the details, I should like to request that the vote on the EQUAL report be held not tomorrow but on Wednesday.
8628	I believe that it is important for the Community initiative to be able to begin on time and therefore for the report to receive overwhelming support so that the Commission is also obliged to take into consideration the constructive proposals made by the European Parliament, because Parliament put the appropriations for EQUAL in the reserve precisely so as to ensure that Members' ideas were also reflected in this Community initiative.
8629	In this connection, the European Parliament is also justified in insisting that it should be possible to amend the thematic priorities only after a further hearing in Parliament.
8630	EQUAL should live up to its name, and this is my firm intention.
8631	It should provide equal opportunities for all those at a disadvantage in the European Union.
8632	It should prevent society from splintering.
8633	It should prevent exclusion from being part of everyday life.
8634	Everyone should be given the opportunity to benefit here from a common initiative regardless of their age, gender or origin.
8635	That is my intention and I would ask the House to give this report overwhelming support!
8636	Madam President, it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new URBAN Community initiative and it is an achievement that I am here tonight because Air France cancelled my flight at 2.10 p.m. but I am here!
8637	Just a year ago when the Commission produced its proposals around Agenda 2000 it axed the URBAN initiative.
8638	Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000.
8639	Parliament, therefore, can take credit for a successful lobbying campaign to put URBAN back on the agenda and get the Commission and Council to make a U-turn.
8640	Urban policy has always been at the forefront of EU policy.
8641	In my Member State, for example, we are developing a strategic approach in a White Paper and an urban government taskforce is looking at the problems of urban communities.
8642	With eight out of ten people in Europe living in urban areas, it is right that we help our most deprived communities to tackle the all too familiar problems of deprivation, social exclusion, joblessness, crime, drug dependency and all the problems that are associated with that.
8643	For example, in my own region, in Manchester, the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success.
8644	URBAN funds have been invested in one of the most deprived neighbourhoods in the UK, in Moss Side.
8645	The Millennium Youth Park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community.
8646	The work of this URBAN agenda was then taken out to the wider community with an active communication and publicity campaign in local supermarkets and famous British pubs.
8647	This is the kind of good practice we would like to see extended across the EU in terms of communication and publicity.
8648	As regards the specific guidelines governing the initiative, they are broadly defined to give scope for local and regional diversity.
8649	We agree that they ought to be indicative in nature, allowing the maximum flexibility to ensure that we target specific programmes.
8650	In committee we are not in favour of reducing the number to 50.
8651	We are in favour of reduction overall but we believe that the arbitrary number of 50 is not the key factor.
8652	Instead, we should go for good-quality projects that can act as a catalyst to effect change and renewal, to attract inward investment in terms of loans and venture capital and to achieve a multiplier effect.
8653	The Member States should therefore be able to propose a reasonable number of areas within the financial ceiling of their allocations.
8654	In the designation of local URBAN programmes we need to make good use of local indicators and statistics on deprivation and health to enable us to more effectively target the most affected areas.
8655	In the UK the local index of deprivation is a very good example of a widely used standard and statistic to help determine not only EU but national and regional assistance programmes.
8656	This needs to be acknowledged as a tool and resource in addition to the EU criteria.
8657	I would ask you to take on board local indicators to help us do that.
8658	Our most deprived urban neighbourhoods face a plethora of problems: high unemployment and often very low-paid precarious employment, poverty and social exclusion.
8659	Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency.
8660	We therefore have unstable communities which are infiltrated with crime, drug-dealing and gangs.
8661	This is all too familiar in many of our urban areas.
8662	All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents, yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity.
8663	That is why again, in my report, I have asked that action under the URBAN Programme should not merely provide a single solution to a single problem: these areas do not have single, "mono" problems.
8664	Instead, communities in urban areas should be encouraged to present integrated action plans to tackle their specific urban problems, using EU resources as a value added to local actions.
8665	I would like to see those actions extended to cover health and anti-discrimination, as provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
8666	The Community initiative means community involvement. Some of the most active and committed proponents and agents of change in our urban areas are local residents.
8667	We need to encourage them to participate in designing and delivering projects for these programmes.
8668	The time-scale therefore proposed by the Commission is very ambitious.
8669	It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation.
8670	The Commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice.
8671	This is important in the interests of transparency and the overall effectiveness of networks.
8672	Finally, I should like to emphasise that in order to address the problems facing the post-industrial city we require local participation.
8673	We need to deploy the energies of the unemployed, the underused skills of youth and the experience of age to tackle these problems.
8674	We shall thereby be able to replace poverty, dependency and alienation with equity, initiative and participation.
8675	This will help us to restore the credibility of the EU and the confidence of citizens that Europe can deliver local action to solve local problems.
8676	. (IT) Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, has already pointed out, we can certainly consider URBAN a success for the European Parliament with regard to the debate held last year on the reform of the regulations.
8677	As we have heard, the objective of URBAN is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas, bearing in mind that 80% of the population of Europe lives in cities.
8678	Creating a functioning urban environment in terms of social policy requires a policy of long-term job creation, action to combat poverty, measures to assist low-income groups and old people, facilities for children, racial and ethnic integration, better opportunities for participation, a targeted public health policy including measures to prevent drug abuse and concerted crime prevention measures.
8679	The Communication from the Commission takes account of the need to adopt approaches combining a range of economic, social, and infrastructural measures.
8680	However, we must remember that, in addition to URBAN, a number of other Community instruments are also available in the social sector: innovative actions under Article 6 of the ESF regulation, pilot projects, particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the European Parliament under the 2000 budget and the EQUAL and INTERREG initiatives and mainstream ESF activities.
8681	As the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs stressed in its opinion, the Commission must therefore recognise the need to exploit synergies in this context while avoiding duplication of multiple funding.
8682	While, on the one hand, we believe that steering committees should ensure that the various projects are coherent and complementary, we would on the other hand urge the Commission to reinforce exchanges of information and coordination between the departments involved.
8683	Not only is this coordination essential but, as we stated in our opinion, exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential.
8684	Mr President, the importance of this initiative is increasing constantly as economic and social problems in Europe' s cities intensify and the public feels more and more out of touch with the administration of its city or neighbourhood.
8685	That situation will be compounded by social reclassifications resulting from European Union enlargement, and we must therefore make provision for the economic regeneration and social cohesion of our cities.
8686	Addressing those problems is all the more urgent in view of the marked spread of cities into the surrounding areas and in view of the cities' historical and cultural role.
8687	However, in order for such an effort to succeed it is necessary to secure the commitment and participation of the public as a whole and to enlist the support of the less active social groups and the groups particularly affected by the economic and social crisis.
8688	Here, we wish to stress the need for the balanced involvement of women, and the agencies that represent them, in planning and implementing the URBAN initiative programmes.
8689	As the Committee on Equal Opportunities, we also stress the need to finance infrastructures that will facilitate professional activity by women, mainly by harmonising their professional and family commitments, and more generally infrastructures that promote solidarity between the generations, social solidarity.
8690	Effective implementation of this initiative could have a cumulative result because it could inspire similar action at regional and local levels, thus increasing its political importance still further since women need to feel the effects of European policy in their day-to-day life in real terms.
8691	Mr President, our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the Commission for the URBAN programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention.
8692	In committee we thought that it was necessary for the economic and social regeneration of urban areas to go hand-in-hand with the creation of an atmosphere of tolerance towards minorities and therefore for measures designed to reduce racism and xenophobia to be an integral part of programmes to be funded by URBAN.
8693	We considered that increasing public confidence by combating everyday urban crime was one of the central tasks of urban regeneration.
8694	Our committee noted that innovative and effective action to combat and prevent crime at local level would require a whole array of measures including the incorporation of crime prevention in town planning, action to prevent juvenile delinquency, the reintegration of offenders, and models for effective local cooperation between the various parties involved, for example the police, the courts and social services.
8695	We adopted our recommendation unanimously in the committee because we felt that it was particularly important to continue URBAN - which in the past has been implemented successfully - because, as we see it, programmes of this kind are the only way in which we in the European Union will succeed in ensuring that in the long term all those who live in the European Union enjoy peaceful coexistence.
8696	For this reason we very much welcome programmes of this kind.
8697	I should like to comment on the concerns which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has with regard to the largest of the four Community initiatives, INTERREG III.
8698	It must also be possible to a considerable extent for social measures to receive support under INTERREG III.
8699	In the light of the fact that 50% of unemployment in the Union is essentially structural and given the particular sensitivity of the situation in the border regions - I need only refer to the possibility of unwelcome migration - this is not only reasonable but imperative.
8700	The measures eligible for funding listed in Annex II of strand A do also seem encouraging in this respect.
8701	In reality, however, the Commission communication does not contain a single provision for the Member States with these integrated approaches for social and employment policy aspects.
8702	I should therefore like to draw your attention in particular to the inclusion of increased numbers of vocational training measures, especially in areas with high levels of long-term and youth unemployment.
8703	Employment policy measures should also be eligible for funding under strand B, especially for the applicant countries as part of the pre-accession strategy.
8704	In general where the employment policy measures are concerned it would seem to me to be necessary for appointments to the joint cooperation committee to be made on a regional basis - because the local expertise required for these specific purposes is only available at regional level - so as to avoid these measures becoming too abstract and therefore proving disappointing.
8705	The fact that administrative expenditure on INTERREG III is - in my opinion - still excessive is something which we can and indeed always must criticise, although it almost seems to me as though this is unavoidable with the Commission' s support programmes.
8706	However, I should like to point out that it is precisely here that this is fatal.
8707	It is precisely where employment policy is concerned that we should work towards measures which are as simplified as possible so that the social dimension of the EU is once again given the importance which it deserves.
8708	Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism considered, amongst other things, the report on LEADER+ and, as a result, agreed to support the process of decentralisation in the management of actions, believing that that process could be effective on two conditions: that local action groups represent the general interests of the local community, and that Commission control mechanisms are utilised to prevent local and regional political authorities from using LEADER+ resources to support civil groups and organisations which are related to those authorities.
8709	We ask for a guarantee that the decision-making bodies for the projects are represented equally by three elements: political representatives and public administrations, companies and economic operators, and social operators, including unions and non-governmental organisations. We would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies.
8710	We would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development, whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself, and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes, included in Objectives 1 and 2, and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located.
8711	We are pleased that all the rural areas of the Union may be involved in LEADER+, but we believe that it is necessary to concentrate Community resources in the less-favoured regions in order to facilitate the process of socio-economic cohesion within the Union, and that state governments should not divert these resources towards objectives other than cohesion.
8712	The Committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development, in particular based on local traditions, techniques and practices, on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy.
8713	The Committee supports the Commission proposal to concentrate actions in small selected areas and believes that, given the dispersed nature of many rural inhabited locations, the minimum demographic ceiling for the selection of a project should be reduced to 10 000 inhabitants.
8714	We believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3, financed by LEADER, with those of other actions financed by other Community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership, such as INTERREG, SAPAR, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, in the same areas.
8715	Mr President, Mrs Stenzel, ladies and gentlemen, before addressing the EQUAL report itself, I should like to make a point of principle in connection with the employment guidelines on which the report is based.
8716	The basic objectives of an EU-wide employment policy are laid down in the guidelines and include employability, entrepreneurship and adaptability.
8717	These objectives are obviously intended to make employees as useful and usable as possible to the economy.
8718	However, the aim of an approach which really sought to reduce discrimination effectively and in the long term would have to be people' s self-determination.
8719	Only then does it stop being a question of economic usability and start being about people having equal rights to shape their own lives.
8720	Mrs Stenzel' s report has, however, turned out very well, at least where the prescribed guidelines are concerned.
8721	All asylum seekers and refugees are to be included explicitly in the programmes, although this should be self-evident.
8722	Nevertheless the Conservatives voted against this in the committee.
8723	I would ask them the following questions: does your policy seek to marginalise people?
8724	What is the idea behind preventing people from working when they wish to do so?
8725	Does this not stand in stark contradiction to the guideline on employability?
8726	It is also worth mentioning that this is a mainstreaming programme, because there remains a shortcoming in the report.
8727	Particular emphasis is given to the point that women' s opportunities on the labour market ought to be improved and that to achieve this more crèches should be built.
8728	Anyone who lets men happily climb the career ladder and worries only about childcare places without fighting against the way in which the work of reproduction is shared out unevenly has not - and unfortunately that includes women - understood the concept of mainstreaming!
8729	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism adopted this opinion on the EQUAL report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention.
8730	I am deliberately stating this at the beginning of my intervention to make it clear that there is in fact an alternative view to that of the committee responsible, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
8731	This cross-group support for the opinion is explained by the conclusions, which are devoted to the question of how issues related to regional policy, transport and tourism can be combined with action to combat all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market.
8732	The members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism of course also identify a number of areas of the Commission proposal which they would criticise: firstly, for example, the insufficient thematic guidelines laid down for the development partnership activities; secondly, the fact that strict selection criteria for evaluating the project proposals will only be drawn up only at a later stage by the Commission and thirdly, the fear of excessive administrative and technical expenditure on project management by the Commission and the technical assistance bodies.
8733	That is why a ceiling needs to be set for administrative expenditure.
8734	The committee based its conclusions on these critical comments.
8735	We attached particular importance to linking the creation of new jobs for disadvantaged and excluded people in the social sector, in tourism and in small and medium-sized enterprises with promoting the establishment of new small and medium-sized businesses bearing in mind the necessary economic structural change.
8736	Dovetailing the activities under the Community initiative with the European employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the EQUAL programme.
8737	We fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at European level as an integral part of the EQUAL programme.
8738	The specific target of deriving European added value brings the regional cooperation up to European level while retaining the cooperation of the various regional operators.
8739	This is a good approach and that is why we have also supported it.
8740	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned today that the first URBAN initiative was an unqualified success.
8741	The fact that this initiative will now be continued in the form of URBAN II, albeit with a smaller budget, is something for which we have to thank individual, committed Members of this Parliament, including in particular - as far as I have heard as a new Member of this Parliament - the rapporteur Mrs McCarthy, whom I should therefore like to thank very much for her dedication and of course also for her report on URBAN II.
8742	A new feature of the URBAN II initiative is that it has been tailored to small cities or parts of cities.
8743	This is important because it is precisely small cities which often find it harder to access aid.
8744	And yet the problems which give rise to the urgent need for regeneration can be particularly acute precisely in cities of this kind and thus have a proportionally adverse effect.
8745	To increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for URBAN II has been limited to 50.
8746	I think that it is important not to stick rigidly to this arbitrary quantitative restriction and instead to leave it to the Member States to decide between how many projects they each wish to divide the support funds to which they are entitled.
8747	In any case it is necessary to ensure that in small Member States in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support.
8748	There URBAN II would only be a drop in the ocean; its success would be doubtful and the whole thing would be a flop.
8749	Just as important in my view is not to broaden the selection criteria for URBAN II too much and thus water them down.
8750	It is precisely a strictly defined list of criteria which is essential if the programmes which are funded are to be models and be transferable to other problem cities in the future.
8751	From my own experience of local government in an old industrialised region beset with problems, I should like, in conclusion, to ask for your particular support, ladies and gentlemen, for two points in the report which alongside the social policy aspects are, I believe, essential.
8752	Firstly, environmental protection is essential for sustainable urban development and the inclusion of this aspect should therefore be a general requirement for a project to receive funding.
8753	Secondly, preventing and combating routine urban crime and crime related to drug dealing must start at local level.
8754	These are essential steps towards increasing the quality of urban life and must therefore also play a central role in the URBAN II initiative.
8755	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time.
8756	However, criticism has been voiced within my group over the timing of the preparatory work of the committee.
8757	The reports are late, and, in addition, they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
8758	A good opportunity to discuss the results, good practices and shortcomings of the earlier programmes was therefore lost.
8759	Our group is keen to stress the importance of cross-border activity under the INTERREG programme and especially cooperation focusing on areas outside the European Union.
8760	Such important areas include the Balkans and the Adriatic region, but, in my opinion, we should not ignore cooperation with Russia either.
8761	Our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the INTERREG, TACIS, ISPA and PHARE programmes.
8762	This coordination is at present lacking, and the Commission has not as yet made any precise proposals to improve it.
8763	We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible.
8764	It is of decisive importance to get local business, organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes.
8765	Experience shows that projects of cooperation need better planning and closer monitoring and need to be generally more successful.
8766	Projects have often remained half-finished, and their efficiency has been drained by administration and bureaucracy.
8767	We also have to demand that our partners in cooperation be committed to projects and fulfil their share of the agreement.
8768	Our group is reviewing a few amendments that were rejected by the committee.
8769	I would like to mention here again the URBAN report, in which the rapporteur, in the explanatory statements, has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of EUR 500 per inhabitant as per the Commission' s guidelines.
8770	It will not work as an automatic target, but must be applied in the target area according to prevailing conditions.
8771	This is such an important matter for consideration that firm conclusions have to drawn.
8772	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, INTERREG is one of the most European of all the Structural Funds.
8773	Here, projects covering only one region or one country will not receive support; they will have to cover neighbouring regions in two or more countries.
8774	Unfortunately this is only true for part of the money, that is only for the borders within the EU.
8775	But it is precisely the regions on borders with third countries which need an operational instrument to foster cross-border cooperation.
8776	The regulation pretends that there is one, but there is not.
8777	The fact is that the Commission has not amended the regulation for years, although Parliament has been calling for it to do so for some time.
8778	The practical consequence for these regions in the immediate future is that support for border areas will again be downgraded.
8779	Since 1996, Parliament has been calling for a joint fund to be created for cooperation with third countries in order to resolve difficulties.
8780	Nothing has happened!
8781	The difficulties are once again being allowed to persist, to the detriment of the regions concerned.
8782	Parliament is here renewing its call for an improvement and for cross-border cooperation, and we look forward to a joint fund being created and to the regulation being amended once more in cooperation with the other Commissioners.
8783	We want a Europe for the people and not a Europe of paper-pushers!
8784	Mr President, a third of EU money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes.
8785	According to my group, this is excellent if, as a result of this, deprivation within regions, towns and population groups is eliminated or if health and the environment improved.
8786	That is a question of solidarity and progress.
8787	But dishing out increasing amounts of money is no guarantee for improved spending.
8788	The local councils and regions where the money ends up have since gained practical experience.
8789	They find it is extremely difficult to spend the money on their most needy causes.
8790	Anything related to economic growth and infrastructure usually scores quite highly, but social goals and environmental causes often cannot count on approval.
8791	Since there is great uncertainty surrounding the way in which rules are interpreted, local councils and regions have now started to enlist the services of expensive bureaux.
8792	The task of these experts is to gauge to what extent European Commission officials would be prepared to approve plans.
8793	In some cases, I get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems, but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the European Union' s blessing.
8794	It seems that the key goal there has become the construction and painting of propaganda panels advertising the fact that such and such a project has been co-financed by the European Union.
8795	Too much money is wasted on propaganda and investigation bureaux, consultation and control, and a great deal of money ends up back in the country where it was collected in the first place.
8796	After the planned accession of new Member States with their 100 million inhabitants, the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current EU Member States, this squandering will generate even more protest.
8797	In the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, the Confederal Group of the European United Left was in agreement with the draftsman of the opinion, Mr Nogueira Román, on LEADER. He was right to point out that it is not a good idea to share out this funding between all rural areas.
8798	If there is a choice between investing in innovation projects or injecting most of the funding into bringing on deprived areas, we would opt for the latter as this does the most to benefit equality.
8799	After all, innovation in areas that have already grown prosperous is paying dividends even now and taking place without European funding.
8800	A second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils.
8801	The emphasis is on local groups in which the authorities, non-profit-making organisations and profit-making companies join forces.
8802	The discussion has centred on the allocation formula to be applied.
8803	In this respect, one of the variants considered is reminiscent of the Dutch polder model, the structurally planned cooperation between government, trade unions and employers' organisations.
8804	Let us not forget that elections for local councils and regional parliaments are held so as to represent the entire population.
8805	So, really, these bodies should already provide for a balance, and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process.
8806	My group welcomes the fact that the union movement and environmental movement are expressly given their own roles to play, as their input in society is important in our view.
8807	This could prevent local governments that are functioning in a short-sighted or insufficiently democratic way from neglecting their duty of input from the very start.
8808	But the fact that we now fear abuse of power and nepotism indicates that, unfortunately, democracy is not fully functioning yet.
8809	One of the objections is that, due to the restricted role of the elected bodies, businesses gain more influence.
8810	As long as the economy does not weigh up the needs of all in a democratic way but is more concerned with making a profit for the benefit of a few, it is questionable as to whether democracy functions better under the rule of employers than under the rule of local councils.
8811	We believe in 'one man, one vote' more than 'one share, one vote' .
8812	Mr President, there are economic frontiers within the European Union, and the internal market with the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is fully operating at this time.
8813	But for the internal market to work effectively and for the single European currency to be a success it is important that all regions within Europe, of which there are over 100, can economically compete within this very challenging environment.
8814	Some areas within the European Union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita.
8815	There are poor regions within the Union which need to be given European assistance to improve the fabric of their economies so that they can compete within the European Union structure.
8816	That is why, when we look at the EU Financial Perspective between 1989 and 1993, and 1994 and 1999, we find such a large proportion of the EU budget was put aside for the administration of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund.
8817	There are twin problems that still remain for many regions in Europe: firstly, the lack of adequate infrastructure in terms of road, water treatment facilities and related transport networks; secondly, the need to put in place initiatives to combat youth and long-term unemployment, which is a constant social problem in many urban and rural parts of Europe.
8818	There must always be a commitment to ensuring that we do not only build a Europe of the cities alone. We need to ensure that job creation initiatives are in place to promote employment opportunities in the small- and medium-sized enterprise sector in rural parts of Europe as well.
8819	The core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the EU initiative programmes, namely, the new INTERREG III initiative, EQUAL and the LEADER+ scheme.
8820	Between these three programmes there must be a clear demonstration of the commitment of the EU to promoting cross-border development, combating the problems of long-term unemployment and supporting rural development schemes.
8821	Mr President, quite a few towns and cities within the European Union have to contend with deprivation.
8822	The Member States do not always have sufficient means at their disposal to address this deprivation adequately.
8823	This is why it is useful for the European Union to continue to support the Member States and, if necessary, give additional support under URBAN.
8824	Over the next seven years, the Commission' s proposals concerning URBAN will entail a reduction in both the Community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit.
8825	In common with Mrs McCarthy, I have to note that the number of areas has been drastically reduced.
8826	It is desirable for Member States to have a certain amount of freedom to determine the number of projects themselves within the confines of a certain budget.
8827	As far as the budget is concerned, as already stated, URBAN is there to support and complement national policy.
8828	In order to generate extra means if necessary, I think it is entirely logical to turn first to the Member States and private investors.
8829	Consequently, we cannot support Amendment No 2 of the Greens, as borne out in the committee meeting.
8830	In addition, I am of the opinion that funding for a town or neighbourhood, especially where Community contributions are concerned, should incentivise.
8831	Structural support is said to cause subsidy-dependence.
8832	We would then be overreaching ourselves.
8833	I would like to finish off by making a general comment on INTERREG.
8834	In my opinion, funding for cross-border initiatives should only be provided if it is actually required by the regions.
8835	When projects are implemented, it is also important that they do not contravene general Community legislation.
8836	According to the report issued by the Court of Auditors on the year 1998, this is not an imagined risk.
8837	Hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects.
8838	Before I begin I will take the liberty of expressing my consternation at the way in which Austria has been prejudged by 14 Council representatives.
8839	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the reform of the Structural Funds the Community initiatives are being pruned to a total of four.
8840	I welcome the continuation of INTERREG and the priority which it has been accorded.
8841	However, the delayed presentation of the draft guidelines has caused a number of problems.
8842	The regions have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of the guidelines, although this demand was often made in the debate about the reform of the Structural Funds.
8843	There is no direct transition between INTERREG II and III, the practical consequences of which are uncertainty in terms of planning and gaps in funding.
8844	That is a shame because it threatens perfectly sensible projects.
8845	When INTERREG is implemented, it will need to be coordinated and synchronised with the other financial instruments concerned.
8846	This is particularly important in order to increase the efficiency of the funds deployed.
8847	However, problems will arise in particular from the fact that under PHARE, for example, funds are managed on an annual basis and allocation of appropriations is project-related, whereas INTERREG funds are multiannual and are allocated on a measures-related basis.
8848	This will cause practical problems in the future, and I hope that despite this it will be possible to implement INTERREG effectively.
8849	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Community initiative LEADER proved itself to be an effective instrument to initiate innovative developments and pilot projects both within and outside rural areas.
8850	The preservation of this Community initiative in particular, in the form of a new version - LEADER+ - is therefore greatly to be welcomed.
8851	The new LEADER+ programme now covers all rural areas in the European Union, which will open up greater possibilities for potential projects.
8852	It is important for there to be coordination between LEADER+ and the other support initiatives in the European Union, but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important.
8853	Overlap between support schemes must be avoided and at the same time it must also be possible to exploit any synergistic effects.
8854	In this context the aim of stepping up networking between eligible zones under LEADER is very welcome.
8855	Agriculture is one of the cornerstones of the rural environment and it must be possible for it to have a part in the LEADER initiative. In the same way, through the LEADER initiative, structural change in agriculture can be supported by creating new jobs in rural areas.
8856	Attention must be paid in the LEADER+ programme to all the sectors of the economy in rural areas; only a combined effort will reap an optimal result.
8857	LEADER must now move into the implementation phase.
8858	The operational programmes need to be approved as quickly as possible by the Commission, which implies practical and efficient administration of applications and completion of the application approval process as quickly as possible.
8859	Five months are provided for this.
8860	That seems to me to be rather too long.
8861	Efforts should be made here to achieve shorter times.
8862	Because anyone who develops a project and has it ready will also want to start implementing it as soon as possible.
8863	Despite all the delight over the reworking of this Community initiative LEADER+, I do still have one further concern. In its proposal the Commission called for an observatory for the LEADER+ programme without going into detail on how this proposal would be implemented.
8864	For me this raises the following questions: who will work there?
8865	How will these people be selected?
8866	Where, above all, will the required money come from, and where should this observatory be located?
8867	I do think, though, that the LEADER+ programme has not got a penny to spare on additional administrative tasks, which in the normal course of events would have to be carried out by the Commission in any case.
8868	In addition, experience from other fields where observatories have been set up shows that, apart from rather dubiously creating jobs, they are not of any great benefit.
8869	I would therefore call on the Commission to fulfil its monitoring duties directly itself and to do all it can to ensure that LEADER+ programmes run smoothly.
8870	Assessment and publication are part of this, and it has of course assumed responsibility for these in the past.
8871	Mr President, the majority of the borders, which have divided Europe for centuries, were artificially created, separating single geographic spaces and creating serious disparities in terms of balanced development and cohesion.
8872	Our internal borders, or what remains of them, no longer cause wars, but they do continue to generate economic backwardness, social barriers and a lack of cultural communication between the peoples of Europe.
8873	The Community' s institutions are obliged to work towards overcoming these border scars, which contradict the spirit of European unity.
8874	The economic and social cohesion which we propose is based, by means of the INTERREG initiative, on territorial cohesion and on the integration of border areas and the outermost regions of our continent.
8875	INTERREG has always been at the heart of a genuine Community policy for regional planning and a truly polycentric notion of our European territory.
8876	Although the European Parliament supports this initiative, our only regret is that we have to approve a resolution on it before we have seen any evaluation of INTERREG II.
8877	However, we are aware that we must not delay this third version further, since otherwise we would be jeopardising the success of various projects and the continuity of the projects which are currently underway. The success of INTERREG is clear and that is the opinion of the local, regional and national authorities which have participated in the cofinanced projects.
8878	The people who have participated in this initiative have learnt the importance of learning together, of innovation, of sharing projects and good practices and of understanding and tolerating each other.
8879	There are many interesting questions relating to it, the monitoring centre, the principle of concentration etc. However, I would like to concentrate on the management bodies.
8880	We must create joint, interregional and transnational management bodies, in which all local and regional authorities, as well as economic and social operators, play an active role.
8881	There must not be any repetition of cases of parallel projects on both sides of a border.
8882	We must create a cross-border culture, and to this end we must be innovative with regard to administrative cooperation, imaginatively overcoming existing barriers and overcoming the difficulties posed by the differing levels of competence in each Member State, in each region and each municipality.
8883	A project must never fail to be implemented as a result of difficulties in communication.
8884	During debates in committee, we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments, such as MEDA, TACIS or PHARE.
8885	This Parliament' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties, making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes.
8886	Mr President, my reason for wanting to contribute to this debate is because the URBAN initiative, in Ireland in particular, has been quite successful and I am keen that the European Union make a further contribution in that area.
8887	It is a sad fact that there are many hundreds, if not thousands, of communities in the European Union suffering very severe poverty and disadvantage.
8888	Even in Member States and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos, in situations where there are inadequate facilities, where schooling is very poor, where the physical infrastructure is under-developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife.
8889	It seems to me that in order for the European Union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the European Union it must give assistance to Member States to demonstrate that the Union works for these citizens and their families.
8890	The programme has been extremely successful in Ireland, as indeed I know it has been successful in other countries.
8891	It was quite slow in getting off the ground there, but it was slow because it was necessary to have the local people themselves develop these programmes.
8892	It is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative.
8893	It would be very easy to have these programmes developed quickly and on time if you brought in outside professional experts but that would undermine the whole purpose of the URBAN programme.
8894	I should like to make one further point before I conclude: we should insist where this money is being allocated and where this programme is being developed that it be done in the context of a serious URBAN development policy.
8895	This, unfortunately, is not the case in Ireland.
8896	I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market.
8897	The development partnerships are a very clever idea, even though they are experimental.
8898	I have two major concerns, however, about the development partnerships.
8899	They should be accessible to smaller groups, accessible for them to be able to devise, implement and monitor the programmes.
8900	We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme.
8901	I have also expressed concern in the past about the use of simple language and not using jargon, so that it becomes accessible to everyone.
8902	I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report, but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all.
8903	My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems, for example, disabled people' s access to the workplace.
8904	Projects should also specifically address this problem. These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes.
8905	I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands.
8906	I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum-seekers and refugees.
8907	Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation, having access to EQUAL, I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees.
8908	It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else.
8909	Thank you, Mr President.
8910	Ladies and gentlemen, with the LEADER report, rural development is very much to the fore.
8911	This does not happen all that often and it is gratifying, especially as the LEADER programmes have been key elements in the Union' s rural development policy.
8912	It must be pointed out that these programmes have not only been instrumental in structuring regional planning, but have also been vital instruments for economic and social cohesion in often vulnerable areas such as, for example, areas experiencing depopulation.
8913	It must be stressed that in order to become eligible under the LEADER programme, local operators have combined forces, debated and prepared projects.
8914	These programmes have, therefore, been important channels for participative democracy, the rationale of the citizen for Europe.
8915	So, the concept for LEADER+ should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes.
8916	One urgent question is therefore raised: why, when this programme has been successfully run for ten years, is LEADER+ still classed as experimental?
8917	Are there so many other European schemes which can boast 800 specific original experiments which were particularly successful?
8918	For how much longer is the Commission going to leave LEADER at the experimental stage instead of bringing it online as part of the general concept of mainstreaming of rural development?
8919	Moreover, I wonder at the reduced guidelines to which the Commission wishes to restrict LEADER+.
8920	At a time when, Commissioner, after Seattle, we Europeans are fighting on the grounds of multifunctionality in rural development projects, why should we confine ourselves to a few limited criteria with resources that are far from sufficient?
8921	As an ecologist, let met tell you that the precautionary principle and sustainable development require much more diversified and many-sided approaches.
8922	In this connection, the Commission is proposing to limit yet further the cooperation actions of local action groups to only candidate countries.
8923	A better solution would be, as indeed the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism suggests, strengthened coordination between LEADER+ and the Community cooperation and partnership programmes, such as INTERREG, PHARE, SAPARD or MEDA.
8924	The fact is, showing solidarity with Eastern Europe, is all very well, but it is not enough.
8925	The tradition which has already been established by the previous programmes with the countries of the south, particularly the countries around the Mediterranean, must not be abandoned.
8926	Therefore, once more, we can stress that what the area of agriculture and rural development really needs is codecision. Codecision would give us effective means to progress programmes of this type, which require cooperation and cross-disciplinary application.
8927	Mr President, I have a few very brief comments.
8928	We are debating the planning phase and guidelines for the four Community initiatives without access to any substantive and complete appraisal of the previous period.
8929	This is not very good at all.
8930	Programmes and objectives usually turn out to be far too ambitious and their results are not always satisfactory, while the lack of transparency and complexity of the plans often allow considerable scope for mismanagement and even fraud.
8931	The Community initiatives we are debating could play a positive part subject to certain preconditions.
8932	They must, however, not be subordinated to the objectives and aspirations of a more generally negative economic and social policy, but must develop their own self-sufficient role.
8933	For example, adapting EQUAL to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts.
8934	Extending the LEADER initiative to every area in the Union entails the risk of marginalising deprived areas even more, to the benefit of more developed areas.
8935	The INTERREG initiative must include eligible areas with special emphasis on border areas, islands and both mountain and non-mountain areas, such as the prefecture of Arta in Greece, whose omission from Annex I of the Commission' s communication is ill-considered.
8936	Mr President, rural development has been identified by this Parliament and the Commission as a priority policy area, and I would like to welcome here today the Commissioner responsible, Commissioner Fischler.
8937	Our response to rural decline has come late in the day, but I suppose better late than never.
8938	Family farming is now recognised as central to the European agricultural model and is an objective to be addressed, certainly within the time-scale of Agenda 2000.
8939	In my view the next five years will decide the future of thousands of marginal family farms.
8940	It behoves all of us to do everything possible to ensure their survival.
8941	As the Commissioner knows, farming alone will not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of rural communities.
8942	For this reason we need the coordination of all policy areas capable of impacting positively on rural development.
8943	In this regard LEADER has established itself as an effective development initiative.
8944	It provides the opportunity for local communities to identify their development potential and become actively involved in addressing those problems.
8945	The voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated.
8946	Yet, through LEADER, there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader EU and national policy.
8947	In conclusion, while welcoming Commission approval for LEADER+, I am concerned about the time delay between the ending of LEADER II and the commencement of the new programme.
8948	I urge you to look seriously at this problem.
8949	A break in continuity will have serious consequences for the programme and certainly a disruptive effect on voluntary and professional workers.
8950	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having read the Commission communication on the INTERREG III initiative, and pointing out that I took part in the vote on Mr Decourrière' s report within the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like not only to expressly reiterate our agreement in principle with the initiative as presented and, particularly in the context of INTERREG III B, with the Commission' s recognition of activities contributing to the restoration of landscapes run down due the level of prices in the agricultural sector, a sector in which many associations, especially cynegetic, are already making enormous investments in my own country.
8951	I should also like to give my considered support to the comments of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, particularly and primarily in deploring the failure to integrate the most remote regions into strand A of the programme or in commenting upon the lack of precision in the selection criteria for the implementation methods for strand III C and, finally, in requesting that Members of the European Parliament should be involved in the European Observatory for cross-border, transregional and interregional cooperation.
8952	I should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which, in the Commission communication with reference to INTERREG III and III B, involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of Natura 2000, which I think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems, from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted.
8953	Finally, if the Commission and the relevant Councils of Ministers permit, I should like to stress that the Members of the European Parliament should be given more information on the procedures relating to the implementation of the INTERREG projects and, beyond that, of similar initiatives.
8954	It would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned, otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens.
8955	Mr President, first of all, I would like thank the rapporteur of the EQUAL report, Mrs Stenzel, very warmly for all the efforts she has made to master this very complex subject matter on behalf of all of us.
8956	EQUAL is a very difficult programme because it attempts to combine so many old programmes and yet aims to view them in a different light, doing so with less money than was available in the previous funds.
8957	This is an arduous task.
8958	Only, the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped.
8959	This is why it is so hard to strike a balance, not only between the different countries or the different components, but especially between the different groups listed in the programme, and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date.
8960	Comments are made here and there to the effect that one group should get more funding than another.
8961	I, for my part, have focused on the position of the handicapped and the elderly within the framework of the programme, and I have to say that their position could well have been overlooked altogether if it had not been for the European Parliament devoting special attention to them.
8962	Although a few other groups have been mentioned, it is the Member States, in particular, which are on the lookout.
8963	For example, I know of one Member State that would like to use a large proportion of the entire programme for one component, namely refugees.
8964	I would, therefore, ask the Commissioner to ensure that a balance is struck between these different groups.
8965	It should not be the case that one Member State, under the pretext of calling on the subsidiarity principle, can decide that all funding should go to one group.
8966	I think that this will have to be monitored closely because otherwise we will end up in that situation against which Mr Meijer has warned us so vehemently, to wit, that vested interests will emerge and that people will think that the money is theirs to spend.
8967	This is not the case!
8968	It has to be redistributed time and again. It should be used for innovative projects and it should not completely disappear into the Finance Minister' s treasury funds.
8969	That is not the intention and that is an important point that we need to bear in mind here.
8970	I believe that the remaining problems that we have faced within this Parliament, and which in large part stem from the fact that it is so difficult to strike the right balance, can be solved.
8971	As far as the Commission is concerned, I hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this Parliament, mainly with a view to reaching a balance.
8972	I would just like to underline this - the situation is, of course, a little precarious - Parliament has, for the sake of convenience and safety, placed the EQUAL programme on the back burner for the time being, so that Parliament has yet to be persuaded of the way the funds are to be distributed.
8973	I believe that this is actually a good thing.
8974	The position of Parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear.
8975	The Rules of Procedure do not shed any more light on the matter and that is exactly why this back burner is extremely useful.
8976	Mr President, there is no doubt that the INTERREG initiative promotes efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion in the European Union.
8977	However, I should like to stress INTERREG' s particular importance for the Balkan area, where political developments and hostilities over the past few years have had major economic repercussions for neighbouring countries and especially for my own country, Greece, which is the only Member State on that long-suffering peninsula.
8978	For Greece, for the neighbouring countries Italy and Austria, but also for Europe as a whole, the social and economic restoration of the Balkans, bringing political stability, is a vitally important matter.
8979	So far, some Balkan countries have received aid from the PHARE and Obnova programmes, while others have not.
8980	During the new programme period, in view of enlargement and bearing in mind that funding has been provided for from new financial instruments and regulations, such as ISPA and Sapard, it is considered absolutely essential to coordinate the funding of all three strands of INTERREG with other financial aid to third countries.
8981	Accordingly, we welcome the related references in Chapter 7 of the European Commission' s proposed general guidelines for INTERREG.
8982	The efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally, and I say that because in the MEDA programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome, so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme.
8983	I should like to end by saying that the planning of the new inter-state cooperation zones has taken no account of the Mediterranean' s geographical peculiarities, which would justify the creation of a special zone for coastal and island regions.
8984	We therefore ask the Commission to pay special attention to the issue of maritime and island cooperation when zone planning next comes up for review.
8985	I end by stressing the need for the European Union to persist with such initiatives, which strive to eliminate inequalities between our regions, and to foster their harmonious development.
8986	And since this is St. Valentine' s day, as a former Mayor of a regional city, I propose that we should all declare our love for all the European regions which need that love.
8987	Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, rural development can and must tackle the problem from three different angles: preservation of jobs, stewardship of the countryside and, not least, local culture, because that is of the utmost importance.
8988	Only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured.
8989	We can observe the consequences of migration from the countryside in several areas of the Alps and they are devastating.
8990	But I warn against using these programmes to take urban culture to the countryside.
8991	And neither should we create structures which are reliant on subsidies and which will be dependent on them forevermore.
8992	To really guarantee sustainability - a buzzword which has, since it gained new currency, become relatively devoid of meaning, but we all know what we mean by it - what is needed, amongst other things, is an integrated approach in the countryside towards, for example, tourism and agriculture.
8993	The investment needs to be visionary.
8994	Young, creative individuals must be made to feel an attachment to the countryside.
8995	If they all leave then nothing much will go on there any more.
8996	None of us think much of the principle of indiscriminate, all-round distribution, and the pilot projects need to act, as it were, like avalanches and trigger other similar projects.
8997	I would be in favour of supporting self-contained cycles of projects and, even though LEADER I and LEADER II may have had shortcomings here and there, overall they were certainly positive.
8998	I should like to ask that we consider granting derogations not only in the Nordic countries but also for mountainous areas - the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Sierra Nevada, from where I have just returned - in respect of population size and density.
8999	Mr President, I want to talk about the EQUAL report, especially the issue of the policy on refugees.
9000	Last week, we had a very impassioned discussion about the formation of the Austrian Government.
9001	Today, we are already discussing the Austrian coalition government' s policy on refugees because Mrs Stenzel, who is the author of the EQUAL report, of course represents Austria' s governing conservative party and its policy.
9002	The most startling aspect of her original report was that she wanted to limit aid to the small group of refugees covered by the Geneva Convention, that is to say so-called quota refugees or UN refugees.
9003	In actual fact, it is the other refugees, namely those outside the quota and those not covered by UN aid, who need aid the most.
9004	The Committee rejected this discriminatory proposal and decided that all refugees should have a place on the EQUAL programme on identical conditions.
9005	Some members of the Committee, however, supported Mrs Stenzel' s proposal and wordings.
9006	As I see it, this means that Mr Haider' s politics are already casting their shadow over this Parliament.
9007	It is therefore crucially important that the Chamber should be as emphatic as it possibly can be in establishing the fact that all refugees are to have a place on the EQUAL programme.
9008	I want, finally, to say that I had certain misgivings last week when we discussed the formation of the Austrian Government but, when it comes to discussing and criticising its policy on refugees, I have no misgivings.
9009	I hope that the Chamber will be just as committed this time.
9010	Mr President, during the last EU Financial Perspective from 1994 to 1999, when there were 13 different initiatives in operation, the INTERREG II cross-border programme was an important initiative.
9011	The fact that the next round of Structural Funds 2000-2006 includes the INTERREG initiative is I believe, a very clear indication of the importance which is attached to it by national EU Member States.
9012	The INTERREG I programme between 1989 and 1993 and the INTERREG II programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering Member States.
9013	Coming from the border counties in the north-west of Ireland, I have seen over the years the important role which INTERREG I and II have played and I am delighted to welcome INTERREG III.
9014	The Commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the INTERREG III programme, which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
9015	The European Union has played a key role in developing the border county region in Ireland over the years.
9016	The European Union is the single largest contributor, with 80 million pounds to the International Fund for Ireland. The European Union contributes 75% of the Peace and Reconciliation programme.
9017	All in all, INTERREG, the International Fund for Ireland and the Peace and Reconciliation programme have all played an important role in the developing peace process.
9018	Mr President, I am taking the floor to speak about INTERREG, but I shall confine myself to a few criticisms, which will clearly also enable me to keep to my speaking time.
9019	We have all spoken favourably of this programme' s confirmation and of the extension of the sectors it covers to include the field of transnational and interregional cooperation, in addition to cross-border cooperation.
9020	However, this does not blind us to the fact that the majority of resources - 50-80% - will be reserved for cross-border cooperation, for INTERREG IIIA. Therefore, we still think the decision to consolidate the current areas of cooperation in this strand, regarding the selection of eligible regions, is wrong and contradictory.
9021	We hope that the Commission will want to look into this and acknowledge Parliament' s position in practical terms, and not just with a formal tribute.
9022	Cross-border cooperation continues almost exclusively to be an issue concerning landlocked areas and, where exceptions have been made for maritime areas, their selection is not transparent and they often suffer from compensation from other Community policies.
9023	This discrimination is much more serious for islands that have a regional status that can only be linked to areas of an exclusively maritime nature.
9024	This is in line with ongoing discrimination, which ignores Article 158 of the Treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies.
9025	More serious still is the fact that this is occurring while ignoring the new situation associated with the approach that has been adopted towards the enlargement process for the inclusion of regions such as Malta.
9026	This has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the NUTS III Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta and to include all the regions of the Adriatic which share a frontier with Balkan regions.
9027	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express the satisfaction I have in noting that the most remote regions, including the French overseas departments, have received some attention in connection with the INTERREG III initiative, opening up new perspectives for their cooperation with other countries in their geographical area, even though it is true that more could have been expected, particularly with regard to access to the various strands.
9028	For a long time, probably a survival of our colonial heritage, our regions have fixed their attention on the European mainland, ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours.
9029	That time is now past.
9030	Our regions have become aware of belonging to an environment that they are connected to, not only in geographical terms but also in terms of their culture and the history of their peoples, hence the intensely expressed aspiration to become more deeply rooted in this environment.
9031	This increased awareness does not, however, affect identity alone.
9032	It is fostered by a fair appraisal of our assets.
9033	So, for example, the island of Réunion is located on a trade axis between the countries of southern Africa and those of south-east Asia.
9034	It cannot afford to remain outside the regional alliances being forged in this area, lest it miss out on a historic opportunity, and the same applies to our regions in the Caribbean.
9035	At last we are convinced that our young people may start to see an end to the tragic unemployment, the source of so much despair, if we can export to neighbouring countries the know-how which we have gained thanks to the operation of the European structural funds.
9036	INTERREG appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable European Union bridgeheads into these geographical areas, giving it worldwide scope.
9037	I am counting on the Commission, and specifically on you, Commissioner, to allocate adequate resources for effective action.
9038	Mr President, Commissioners, I greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-European cooperation under INTERREG, but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas.
9039	I understand the Commission' s own concern that distance may prove detrimental to effective cooperation.
9040	Nonetheless, there are many maritime areas between which links are already established.
9041	Various local authorities around the North Sea provide a prime example of this.
9042	INTERREG could well allow enhancement of such cooperation.
9043	In consequence, I seek some small adjustments to the guidelines to provide a little more flexibility and to accommodate the ways in which the interests of maritime areas can fall between strand A and strand B. These adjustments include clarifying the possibilities for cooperation between maritime areas and permitting greater development of practical and visible projects, particularly those of an infrastructural kind.
9044	Such measures will put maritime and insular areas on an equal footing with other areas of the EU. I hope for their adoption.
9045	Mr President, our group welcomes the horizontal thrust of the EQUAL initiative so that, if you are a British Muslim physically disabled in some way you no longer have to chose which category of discrimination you belong to as a target group: you can use your expertise and experience to solve problems, rather than being defined as the problem.
9046	There is a lot of expertise within the relevant organisations which deserves to be shared.
9047	We also welcome the recognition of the need for evaluation and the dissemination of best practice for the tightening up of the transnational level.
9048	We are concerned, therefore, as others have said, at the number of amendments which seek to exclude even further some of society' s most excluded, by aiming for a very narrow definition of "refugee".
9049	My group will not be supporting those amendments.
9050	We are also concerned at the number of amendments which, in seeking to introduce greater flexibility, run the risk perhaps of obscuring responsibility for the management of the EQUAL initiative.
9051	Mr President, I am very pleased to see URBAN orientated towards a more integrated approach which attempts to solve interrelated problems.
9052	Yet, there is some risk of dilution of effort. If we pursue too many objectives, our overall effectiveness suffers.
9053	Of course, every instance of a deprived urban area is a separate case.
9054	But there is a common factor, a hard core, comprising unemployment, the resignation or withdrawal of public services and the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises, both commercial and other kinds.
9055	I would wish URBAN to be orientated mainly towards providing answers to those causes of urban deprivation.
9056	For this, of course, central policy must interact and be coordinated with development policy, so that the latter too can be reorientated and can work synergistically with the objectives of any URBAN programmes implemented in our countries, and so that it is not just using them as an alibi for its own shortcomings.
9057	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine my observations to Mr Decourrière' s report.
9058	The INTERREG Community Initiative Programme is an extremely important tool in terms of the development and regional planning of European territory, most particularly with reference to effectively taking into account the relationship between the centre of the European Union and its outlying regions.
9059	INTERREG must, therefore, be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the Union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed European territory.
9060	It is obvious to me that the regional and local authorities, and their representative bodies, the Committee of the Regions and, of course, the European Parliament should have been involved in the clearest way possible and at the earliest possible opportunity framing this programme.
9061	Indeed, I am forced to observe that this was not the case when the Commission drew up its communication, published on 13 October last year.
9062	Even though I approve of the general guidelines of INTERREG III, I feel it is extremely important to ensure better coordination between this programme, financed by the ERDF, and the other external cooperation funds, including in particular the European Development Fund, intended for ACP countries.
9063	In this connection, I should like to thank the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for adopting one of my amendments adding the EDF to the list of these funds.
9064	The most remote regions, particularly the four French overseas departments, must be able to coordinate INTERREG III and the EDF in order to fund, in turn, cooperation projects with their ACP neighbours in their respective geographical areas.
9065	Furthermore, I would ask the Commission to please reconsider the limited opportunities that have been offered to the most remote and island regions according to the guidelines put forward in the communication.
9066	It is essential for these regions to be able to benefit fully from INTERREG III, just like all the other regions in the Union, especially now that the REGIS programme dedicated to such isolated regions has been dropped.
9067	Finally, in conclusion, I would like to express my regret at the low level of funding allocated to strand C, for interregional cooperation, even though the added value this offers the Community is undeniable.
9068	Mr President, my starting point is the EQUAL report and equality between men and women, although I must admit that it is sometimes hard to talk about this issue, which has a feeling of déjà vu about it when you are my age, in any case.
9069	Unfortunately, it is necessary to point out again that we do not have equality.
9070	A breakthrough in this regard may perhaps lead to changes in other areas, however.
9071	For me, equality certainly does not mean that both parties to a marriage work the whole time and hand the children over to a nanny, alias an immigrant who has not had the opportunity to obtain another job.
9072	If that is the case, we have not progressed one little bit since pagan times.
9073	No, equality means that we all participate in both working life and family life.
9074	Unfortunately, developments are not moving in that direction.
9075	On the contrary.
9076	I think, therefore, that paragraph 7 contains something very central, i.e. that EQUAL will be used as a testing ground for developing and promoting new ways of delivering employment policies.
9077	One can only hope that it succeeds.
9078	I should just like to say, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that if I am not here when the Commission responds - not that I have asked any specific questions, but I should nonetheless hope that the Commission has been paying attention - then that is because the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities is meeting to discuss women in the decision-making process at the same time as the present debate is going on.
9079	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who work on rural areas know that, of the programmes which the European Union has managed, the LEADER programme, both LEADER I and LEADER II, is one of its success stories, and I hope that the same will be true of LEADER+.
9080	One of the reasons why it has been so successful is that the basic concept of the LEADER programmes aroused substantial interest in activities amongst the population concerned.
9081	I am glad that LEADER+ is to remain true to this underlying concept.
9082	There is a problem, however, which we need to address together.
9083	Because LEADER is a kind of workshop with a bottom-up approach, a huge number of ideas have come to fruition in recent years through LEADER I and II which of course at some point will no longer be brand new or as successful as they once were.
9084	And because of the programme' s success and its basic approach they will of course at some point then be dropped from LEADER.
9085	That is why, where the good LEADER projects are concerned, we need to ensure that those which have proved to be outstanding are not suddenly discontinued; instead the ideas which have proved to be worthwhile need at some stage to be transferred into the standard programmes as a reliable, positive component of our support to rural areas.
9086	Of course this is also the basic idea.
9087	It is to take new ideas and try them out in LEADER, with the participants on the ground, with the local organisations on the ground, with many non-governmental organisations, with the churches, with all those who have helped actually to get new ideas up and running in rural communities.
9088	Here we must ensure that the good schemes, those which are really excellent, are then somehow transferred into rural development policy to safeguard the future of this laudable work.
9089	My request to the Commission is that it should make sure that the organisations and sections of the population which get involved really are accepted.
9090	There should be no attempt to have one or other organisation, which is just being formed with a view to contributing a new idea and is not yet so well known, pushed a little on to the sidelines, say because of official local or regional policy.
9091	Have faith in the successful results which LEADER has had so far.
9092	At the beginning it is sometimes a little like chasing a rainbow if we say that a plan is too idealistic.
9093	And then when the work and the action start something emerges which the official policy, including ourselves at this level, could never have imagined would suddenly have developed so well.
9094	That was the charm of LEADER, and that should please not be lost!
9095	Mr President, I welcome the EQUAL initiative and the report which highlights the need to distinguish between actions to combat discrimination against women and actions to combat discrimination against minority groups.
9096	Women are not a minority and often suffer double discrimination as members of minority groups as well as because of their gender.
9097	This is why specific action for women is needed, as well as mainstreaming.
9098	The report addresses this and proposes integrating action to achieve equality between women and men in all aspects of work; it also recognises the importance of working with local and regional bodies which are those closest to the people to help ensure that all project results are mainstreamed.
9099	The involvement of voluntary and community groups will also be an essential ingredient of the EQUAL initiative and the projects.
9100	The development partnerships within the thematic fields, which are referred to in Amendment No. 22, would enable even the smaller organisations to play a part in the EQUAL initiative.
9101	My group will be supporting Amendment No. 22.
9102	Mr President, the report under discussion in the House today is doubtless of great importance.
9103	In addition to the objectives it is working towards, the strong point of the Community initiative INTERREG for the 2000-2006 programming period lies in its added value from the viewpoint of what is now the imminent enlargement of the European Union to include new Eastern European and Mediterranean countries.
9104	In my opinion, it is precisely in anticipation of this deadline that the European Union should strive to reduce disparities between regions and put an end to the isolation of border areas.
9105	Indeed, these areas - and it is right to stress this - have an important role to play as an interface with the applicant countries that are going to join the Union.
9106	It is precisely with this in mind that I tabled some amendments which I consider to be of the utmost importance, and that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has subsequently taken up.
9107	They call for the areas eligible for cross-border cooperation to be extended to all regions of the Adriatic, as well as to the Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta - an applicant country - which, inexplicably, are not currently included in strand A, Annex 1.
9108	I am confident that Commissioner Barnier and the President of the European Commission will duly consider Parliament' s position on the matter, in accordance with the Code of Conduct.
9109	There are fundamental advantages for the whole of Europe for it to promote cooperation with the applicant countries and to support border regions.
9110	Finally, it is to be hoped that greater coordination will be sought between the INTERREG initiative and the existing Community programmes, which are significant for external policy, as a vector for greater integration and for the joint drafting of programmes.
9111	Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, LEADER I was an outright success due, in particular, to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the Commission and the local operators.
9112	It is, I think, regrettable that the Commission could not make a similar assessment of LEADER II, regarding the quality of the projects, the quantity of appropriations spent and, most especially, the demotivation of some local operators in the face of the administrative and financial unwieldiness they encountered.
9113	I am pleased to see, however, that under LEADER+, new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development.
9114	I feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment, in order to promote employment.
9115	The time is now right, I think, to consider including the exchange of positive development experience in the scope of transnational cooperation.
9116	It is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for LEADER II.
9117	Nonetheless, if the opportunity for Member States to determine the areas, within the scope of this initiative, remains available, then the Commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas.
9118	There must, of course, be transparency regarding the selection criteria for projects and local action groups.
9119	I also feel there are grounds for ensuring, in particular, that the financial channels of States or local authorities are not behind the delays in payment which may have caused some LAGs to become bankrupt under LEADER II.
9120	Mr President, as a Member from one of the outermost regions, I must point out that this is a very special afternoon as far as regional policy is concerned, because of the debate on two Community initiatives, URBAN and INTERREG.
9121	I would like to remind you that these initiatives are aimed, firstly, in the case of URBAN, at improving the quality of life of the citizens who live in the poorer parts of various European cities, and, in the case of INTERREG, at facilitating cohesion and recognising the diversity and potential of the regions of the European Union, particularly by including the outermost regions in strands B and C.
9122	Like the rapporteur, we deplore the fact that it has been excluded from strand IIIA.
9123	With regard to INTERREG, we are very happy that there is a reference to the creation of a European monitoring centre concerned with cooperation.
9124	I would like to thank the rapporteurs, particularly Mr Decourrière, for his sensitivity towards the regions and for accepting our amendments.
9125	I hope that the Commissioner will accept the proposal which we are making.
9126	Mr President, with regard to the various initiatives which we are analysing this afternoon, I would like to concentrate strictly on one of them, that is, the URBAN programme.
9127	It is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the European Parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained.
9128	The Commission proposed removing it and other initiatives, but Parliament' s proposal and the sensitivity of the Commission itself at the time led to the URBAN initiative being retained.
9129	I believe that we should be pleased about this.
9130	But what were the Commission' s arguments, from Commissioner Monika Wulf-Mathies and Director-General Eneko Landaburu in particular, for eliminating the URBAN programme?
9131	Its argument was one of priority.
9132	The urban question is so important that we cannot tighten our belts and undervalue it with a programme which has such a small budget.
9133	Today the programme is in place and therefore I believe we have achieved something important, that distinguishing mark of the European Union called the URBAN programme.
9134	However, I would like to address Commissioner Barnier and support the argument of Commissioner Wulf-Mathies and the Director-General, because I think they were absolutely right.
9135	The urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds.
9136	The amount of budget required by our cities - where 80% of the European population live and which increasingly represent both the best and the worst of what we have in Europe, I believe, clearly indicates that the European dimension should be taken into account and that this URBAN programme should not be used as an excuse not to analyse in detail, not to prioritise and, therefore, not to introduce an infinitely greater budgetary contribution into programmes which affect the cities, by means of European funds.
9137	Therefore, I do not believe I need to restate the number of factors which demand this investment in urban areas, factors which are on the agenda, and I would like to say to the Commissioner that we hope he will be sensitive in this respect.
9138	In welcoming the cross-sectoral approach embodied in the new EQUAL initiative, it is crucial that the programme addresses the distinct forms of discrimination which militate against disabled people in particular: physical barriers in the workplace affecting those with limited mobility, visual information systems which exclude blind workers, working systems which effectively close the door on people with learning difficulties or with mental health problems.
9139	Organisations of disabled people and disabled people' s non-disabled representatives must have a proper interest at every stage of decision-making.
9140	That is why this Parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution, to ensure that Member States cannot ignore any one target group.
9141	Disabled people have too often been left off the list.
9142	Because disabled people do not form one homogenous group - for example many deaf people see themselves as a linguistic minority denied respect for their own language and culture - it is necessary as stated in paragraph 9 to enable some partnerships to be defined which are specific to a particular disability or other group.
9143	EQUAL remains crucial also to regions like my own, in the east of England, outside the principal funds of Objective I. We have had an extra incentive to take up Community initiative funding and an excellent record in response.
9144	Former ADAPT projects range from the CORE project, which has developed new supply chains for the car industry in Bedfordshire, to projects to raise standards in small businesses in Hertfordshire in Essex.
9145	We have seen the NOW project helping 70 women to return to work in Suffolk, many of whom were able to come and share the results of their experience directly with us at the European Parliament in Brussels.
9146	EQUAL remains important to us because it is precisely in relatively more prosperous regions that lower-skilled jobs are being shed, which can be an important first destination for those discriminated against in the labour market.
9147	Finally, a word on INTERREG.
9148	It really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links.
9149	During this period the ports of Great Yarmouth and Harwich on the Essex-Suffolk-Norfolk coast have launched significant new transportation and economic links with partners in the Netherlands.
9150	I urge Parliament to support our Amendment No 2, which would ensure flexibility so as to include new areas, particularly on maritime borders.
9151	Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the information of the House, Mr President, I should like to make a clarification.
9152	Chancellor Schüssel' s government will maintain the refugee policy of the former social democratic government led by Chancellor Klima.
9153	There is no change in refugee policy in Austria!
9154	Rural areas make up over 80% of the EU' s territory and 25% of the population live in them.
9155	As a farmer and Member of Parliament, I have always endeavoured not to look at agriculture in isolation but to see rural areas as a whole.
9156	I attach particular importance to adopting an integrated approach towards rural development because I am convinced that only cooperation linking up all people from all walks of life in rural areas will permit them to be active and attractive places to live for everyone; I refer, in short, to the multifunctionality of rural areas.
9157	I should like to welcome in particular the new LEADER+ programme because of its comprehensive nature.
9158	In the future it will be possible to have programmes not only in the individual zones eligible for structural aid but in all the regions of the EU.
9159	This across-the-board approach is sensible because the programmes for rural development are also structured in this way.
9160	In the future, funding will no longer come from three funds but from the EAGGF Guidance section alone.
9161	It will therefore be necessary to increase the quality of the programmes because the EAGGF is supposed to be an effective financial instrument.
9162	Greater precision in the selection process will lead to greater effectiveness, because the money should not be squandered recklessly.
9163	In addition, I should particularly like to emphasise the point which offers an approach towards creating an integrated and environmentally friendly development strategy.
9164	There is great potential for future job creation in rural areas here and we must exploit this if we wish to offer fresh prospects to people living in the countryside.
9165	That is why policy for rural areas is more than a policy just for farmers.
9166	LEADER+ should supplement already existing programmes, avoid overlaps and duplication of financing and thus contribute to a process of development which is as comprehensive as possible.
9167	In this way, LEADER+ can, together with the programmes under Regulation (EC) No 1257/99, consolidate the second pillar of the CAP even more effectively and produce the best possible benefits for the whole of the countryside.
9168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not always proud of the fuss that goes on here in Parliament, but the URBAN programme is one of the best examples of our work: it was created following an initiative in Parliament.
9169	The Commission would have abolished URBAN, but this time Parliament drew the longer straw.
9170	It is good that URBAN is to continue, as it has had good results at local level.
9171	The problems in Europe' s urban areas are getting worse; fortunately, we now have consensus with the Commission.
9172	The majority of the population of Europe live in cities, and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves.
9173	There is an immense risk of exclusion.
9174	In many cities in France and England there are now slums, breeding grounds for many sorts of problems.
9175	None of us wants South American type favelas in Europe.
9176	We have to act now, before it is too late.
9177	Our cities are also of decisive importance for Europe' s economy.
9178	We always come back to the same basic problem in Europe: our economy does not support the individual sufficiently, nor is it sufficiently dynamic.
9179	The economy has to be strong for us to be able to attend to the problems of our fellow-citizens and our environment.
9180	This is not policy; it is life' s simple logic.
9181	It is good that spending has become focused, as otherwise the buckshot gets scattered to the four winds.
9182	Now we have to concentrate on solving problems in small and middle-size towns and cities, as they do not have enough resources.
9183	In this way we will also be able to speed up matters in surrounding rural areas; it is often forgotten that urban and rural problems in fact go hand in hand.
9184	The basis for all this is that we should be encouraging individual innovation and entrepreneurship, as group action begun by the individual will help revitalise an area internally.
9185	Granting funds without an economy that can stand on its own two feet is like carrying water to fill up a dry well: there will be enough to drink for a while, but tomorrow the well will be dry again.
9186	Mr President, with the implementation of INTERREG III, European cooperation policy is entering a new phase.
9187	Our attention is no longer focused exclusively on internal borders but also on external ones.
9188	In the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation, the European Union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions, particularly in Eastern and Southern Europe.
9189	The Union' s borders must no longer be an obstacle to balanced development, but - on the contrary - an opportunity, a bridge to more fruitful cooperation.
9190	By means of amendments adopted in committee, Parliament has tried to supplement the Commission' s work, by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid, and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in Southern Europe.
9191	In its draft guidelines, the Commission acknowledges that these borders require greater attention than they did in the past. This is on account of the process of enlargement to the east and that of greater integration with the Mediterranean countries.
9192	As President Prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000-2005, boosting the Barcelona process is a priority for the Union, and the INTERREG III initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective.
9193	In congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work, we can but hope that the Commission will duly take into consideration the proposals Parliament has put forward, in accordance with the commitments made under the Code of Conduct on the implementation of structural policies, and that it will confirm, with fitting amendments, the transformation of this Community initiative from a mere instrument for internal redistribution to an opportunity to boost and enhance relations with neighbouring countries.
9194	Mr President, from this year until the year 2006 around EUR 200 billion is available for the Structural Funds, but only 5¾ % is set aside for the Community initiatives, INTERREG, LEADER, URBAN and EQUAL.
9195	That is a reduction of 3¾ % compared with the previous CIs.
9196	No more than EUR 2.8 billion is provided for EQUAL, as Mrs Stenzel' s balanced report makes clear.
9197	This makes the large number of amendments and far too long a wish list of possible tasks all the more astonishing.
9198	How are priorities supposed to be set here?
9199	There is agreement on the principle that marginalisation, discrimination and inequalities on the labour market should be reduced.
9200	Transnational strategies are intended to make it possible for disadvantaged groups to have access to jobs.
9201	I have no sympathy for amendments once again backing the TAOs.
9202	Criticism of the previous Commission' s work was particularly severe, legitimately so, with regard to these Technical Assistance Offices.
9203	Our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was, after all, in overall charge of analysing considerable shortcomings and failures to carry out checks in cases related to LEONARDO.
9204	The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either.
9205	It can only approve Member States' proposals if they fulfil all the criteria: firstly, integration through sectoral and geographical development partnerships, whereby the employment policy guidelines need to be taken into account; secondly, the systematic involvement of the operators concerned - the local, regional and national authorities, training institutions, universities, NGOs, the two sides of industry and the private sector - with the aim of creating a durable partnership, and thirdly, methods and models of indisputably innovative character.
9206	The Commission must therefore be the guarantor of the strategic framework for promoting ability to work and quality of work, of the assessment of results and of the effective communication of best practices.
9207	Only then will it be possible for the desired multiplier effect to be achieved.
9208	Mr President, I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP.
9209	On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP.
9210	This proposal will remove the current budget line B2-5122 and create a new budget heading B1-382.
9211	Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important.
9212	Therefore I am putting forward these amendments to Parliament to give its support to the contributions of this type of programme.
9213	Given the need to encourage young farmers to continue in farming it is vitally important that they are well-informed about developments in the common agricultural policy.
9214	Informing and training young farmers at European level is vitally important.
9215	I would ask you to support that part of the available budget should be concentrated on the development of knowledge amongst European young farmers.
9216	Regarding information and training, in the past this budget line has been allocated for information, communication and training.
9217	But the Commission is now proposing that training should no longer be included. I feel that training should be included where it provides relevant information at European level about the CAP.
9218	Such European training is one element in ensuring that young farmers have the necessary knowledge of the CAP to make sound business decisions for the future.
9219	Therefore I am putting forward three amendments.
9220	I would urge Parliament to support them.
9221	Mr President, I am taking the floor to express my opinion, drawn from my experience of municipal administration, that the URBAN projects should, or rather must, have a threefold purpose: firstly, to promote the restoration of infrastructure and historic, old and perhaps dilapidated areas of cities.
9222	Secondly, to promote and stimulate economic activity and social life within these historic centres, within these old quarters of our cities.
9223	There is little point in having streets which are now wonderfully lit, with new pavements, with newly paved road surfaces, all whitewashed and beautiful, if we are not able to fill them with activity and, therefore, employment.
9224	I would like to make it clear that it is not just a question of finance or aid to the different social operators, but rather also of selecting those projects which are aimed at employment, or to put it another way, projects which will tend to favour the creation and promotion of jobs.
9225	Thirdly - and perhaps this should be the first objective - the projects should principally be aimed at the complete rehabilitation of people and families, because man is not made for the law, but rather law is made for man.
9226	These areas of our cities are often home to single-parent families, elderly people who receive a pension and no longer carry out productive activity, and families facing difficulties; sometimes they are families which have broken down and which are excluded from mainstream society.
9227	These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects.
9228	If we have success in this threefold sense, I believe that these families, these people, these European citizens, will believe more in Europe, and this seems to me to be very important because, ultimately, the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in European life.
9229	. (FR) Mr President, before my friends and fellow Commissioners, Franz Fischler and Anna Diamantopoulou, in turn come to speak - since all three of us who are responsible for these four Community initiatives have had the opportunity to follow this debate with the same interest, I would like to endeavour to speak on the subject of URBAN and INTERREG, which many of you have brought up and discussed.
9230	Straight away I should like to express my thanks to the rapporteurs from the committees, from all the committees, but also to the speakers for the groups and to each and every one of you for the quality of your speeches and the great interest they express with regard to these two initiatives.
9231	This is particularly true of what Mrs McCarthy said about URBAN. I should like to thank her not only for her work and for the report which she presented but also - and I do not see why I in turn should not say so too - for all we owe her, for all you owe her as far as this is initiative, as well as, more generally, all we owe Parliament.
9232	I am mindful of the fact that it was in fact the European Parliament which made the political decision and supported the continuation of this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in difficulties, in favour of sustainable urban development, involving at the same time this integrated approach, which we value, to handle the economic, social and environmental aspects simultaneously.
9233	Some other points of agreement highlighted in Mrs McCarthy' s report, the effectiveness of this instrument through the concentration of funding and a critical mass for intervention, the horizontal operation which we think more conducive to disseminating results and increasing the exchange of experience and good practice and, finally, the increasing role of local authorities in the planning and management of the programmes, on the basis of a real partnership.
9234	Having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the Commission' s proposals and Parliament and, having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions, I should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made, with apologies if I cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name.
9235	I think however that you will all recognise your own comments.
9236	Firstly on the subject of the URBAN programme and the maximum threshold of fifty towns, which a number of you termed arbitrary.
9237	I can understand your concern.
9238	I have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the URBAN programme conditional upon certain guarantees, firstly on concentration - I am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or, in exceptional cases, 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding: we must keep to EUR 500 per inhabitant so that the European Union action may be both effective and clear, and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities.
9239	That is my initial response to the threshold question.
9240	Regarding a second matter, now, relating to the additional criteria, which should be taken into consideration in selecting disadvantaged areas. Here, too, I am willing to demonstrate greater flexibility and to consider other relevant criteria in addition to the Community criteria given in point 11 of the guidance project.
9241	Third point: specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women, but also immigrants and refugees, must be envisaged.
9242	This concern, ladies and gentlemen, lies at the very heart of our URBAN initiative, and I am willing to rewrite the text, if necessary, in order to make this message clearer yet.
9243	Regarding URBAN, I should like to conclude with the implementation procedure and mention, first of all, the selection procedure.
9244	Some speakers wanted it to be less bureaucratic, more transparent, and to avoid redundancy in terms of the projects and funding.
9245	Ladies and gentlemen, on this point we must make it clear: in the context of subsidiarity, the selection of zones or municipalities eligible for URBAN is primarily the responsibility of the Member States.
9246	As far as the Commission is concerned, it is willing to avoid any unjustified bureaucratic overload, but we cannot give up the practice of checking the relevance and quality of the proposed programmes, indeed you would be the first to criticise us if we did.
9247	A second observation, the time limits for the submission of programmes and the possibility of submitting a planning supplement in addition to the programmes.
9248	I have no objection to the idea of submitting a planning supplement jointly with the main programme.
9249	This cannot, however, be grounds for an extension of the original time limit.
9250	Let me remind you that the time limit for this programme is six months.
9251	This time limit, which indeed is identical to the one we granted for INTERREG and for the Objective 2 DOCUPs, should normally be adequate, I feel, for drawing up a programme, which does not mean that the projects cannot be defined at a later stage.
9252	With regard to URBAN, I should like to conclude with a final observation.
9253	One of you expressed a wish that these urban issues should not be confined to the URBAN initiative.
9254	I agree completely.
9255	I myself expressed my concern at the meeting of Ministers for regional and urban planning, a concern to which I devote myself, that in the DOCUPs and the CSFs in the planning which we are currently starting to negotiate, my concern, as I said, that, apart from the URBAN initiative, urban issues should be addressed in all the Objective 1 and Objective 2 programmes, and I believe I can express both our awareness of such issues and also our commitment to include them, beyond the scope of URBAN, in all structural fund programming.
9256	But, as for the future, since we must look ahead, I am extremely concerned to see how URBAN is going to be implemented in practical terms, and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn, because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be, for future financial perspectives, a new European regional planning policy.
9257	I am not forgetting, and we cannot forget, that 80% of the citizens of Europe today live in towns and that is why this URBAN instrument is extremely important.
9258	Let me repeat what I have said, we shall be most attentive to the inclusion of urban issues in all structural fund programming.
9259	I should now, Mr President, like to bring up the subject of INTERREG and to thank the rapporteur, Francis Decourrière, in the same way that I thanked Arlene McCarthy, for the quality and relevance of his work.
9260	He stressed a number of points, with which we may indicate our agreement, as many of you did too - the importance of this trans-European cooperation, with its three strands, cross-border, transnational, interregional; the added value to the Community provided by INTERREG, its clarity in relation to the general framework of the structural funds, and the truly cross-border and transnational strengthening of eligible programmes and operations; the importance of common structures and what, in discussing another debate which begins today, the Intergovernmental Conference, I termed the common European spirit which we have to strengthen, and here, with INTERREG, thanks to INTERREG, is a way to strengthen common spirit through common structures for the implementation of programmes with real financial solidarity; the importance of partnership in guaranteeing the active participation of all the local and regional authorities concerned as well as private sector associations and economic and social partners.
9261	Having made these general observations, I should like to focus on your main comments with regard to INTERREG.
9262	The first relate to the timetable and the content of this initiative.
9263	You comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date, stressing, particularly your rapporteur, the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted.
9264	It is true, I admit it, and you are well aware of the reasons, ladies and gentlemen.
9265	There is a delay in adopting the INTERREG guidelines in March or April 2000.
9266	I accept this; I take note of it as you do.
9267	I note, however, that the Member States and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for INTERREG III and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now.
9268	I also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and I can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 January, if the programme is presented before 30 April.
9269	So much for the first comment.
9270	As to the second comment: regarding the non-comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand B, I wish to inform you, to confirm, that I have asked the Commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects, particularly in favour of small- and medium-sized businesses and of cultural heritage, in the list of schemes eligible under strand B and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one.
9271	Third point: interregional cooperation, the importance of strand C. The Commission shares the observations made by this House regarding the importance of strand C, interregional cooperation.
9272	As your rapporteur has requested, I shall send you the detailed information regarding the system for the implementation of this strand.
9273	Fourth observation: the European Observatory and the possible use of a technical assistance office.
9274	As you requested, I have decided to remove all references to the use of a technical assistance office in the text until the outcome of the debate in progress within the Commission on the service outsourcing systems.
9275	But, ladies and gentlemen, if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a TAO at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials' jobs needed to do this work, because somebody will have to do it and I cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely, at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre-accession structural instrument (ISPA) and in order to ensure that, the Community appropriations for which I am responsible, often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with Member States, are monitored better, with discipline and transparency.
9276	Now to the implementation of INTERREG, a subject mentioned by many of you, and the potential eligibility under strand A, 'cross-border cooperation' , of schemes in the Adriatic, on behalf of Sicily or for the most remote regions, the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, understands your concerns and takes note of your requests on these various points.
9277	I therefore intend to amend the guidelines in order to incorporate a specific priority into the transnational strand B: 'integrated cooperation of maritime and island regions' , so as to cover, in what I think is an appropriate fashion the various opportunities for cooperation between these regions.
9278	In addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the Member States: greater financial flexibility between strand A and strand B. Thanks to these two overtures, especially the first, I can say that the Commission is willing to examine the case of Italian regions and regions of third countries around the Adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under INTERREG, and with other instruments too, as soon as they become available.
9279	I have decided, in the end, that the most remote regions, to which I attach particular importance, will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of INTERREG, with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other Member State regions.
9280	I also wish to express my concern to ensure good cooperation between INTERREG and the EDF, particularly for the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean.
9281	All this should make it possible for us, apart from the Objective 1 appropriations and also with them, to confirm the role of 'active frontier' of the Union.
9282	I adopt and wholeheartedly support this political objective that the seven most remote regions of the Union are actually active frontiers of the Union, even if, or precisely because, they are remote and located in other regions of the world where we must bring our influence and our action to bear.
9283	Another point: the coordination between INTERREG, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA.
9284	It is true, once again, and I accept this objectively, that there are still real legal problems.
9285	I do not want to minimise these, but progress is being made as far as strand A cooperation with candidate countries is concerned, even if the problems related to the management procedures and to the scale of the projects still remain.
9286	The Commission must continue along these lines.
9287	I am making a personal commitment to do so.
9288	An initial joint PHARE/CIP committee is to meet in February to assess this coordination, and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this, together with my colleagues and fellow Commissioners Verheugen, Patten and Poul Nielson.
9289	Finally, on the subject of technical assistance, on which your rapporteur and several of you commented.
9290	It goes without saying that the Commission will adhere to the terms of Article 23 of the general regulations regarding technical assistance, if it is indeed assistance intended to be an instrument useful to structural policy in general.
9291	According to the general regulations, however, any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a Community initiative must be proposed under Article 20, and not Article 23.
9292	This means that the ceiling of 0.25% mentioned in Article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance.
9293	I attach great importance, ladies and gentlemen, in a spirit of discipline and transparency, to our nonetheless retaining some financial strands for matters relating to the exchange of experience and information, and not to propaganda, and to the implementation of networks ensuring good communication of best practice within the Union.
9294	My conclusion regarding INTERREG, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is that these Community initiatives for which I am responsible fulfil a real need and everything that has been said is proof of this.
9295	They also foreshadow a real European regional planning policy within our enlarged Union.
9296	The Commission attaches the greatest importance to this, just as you yourselves do.
9297	I remain at your service in order, when the time comes, to present the report of previous planning which you request, but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning.
9298	Repeating my thanks to each and every one of you, and also particularly to Arlene McCarthy and Francis Decourrière, I should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar: only EUR 700 million for URBAN, but this is better than nothing; EUR 4 billion 800 millions for INTERREG.
9299	So we are working within this framework and not outside it.
9300	On the subject of these two initiatives, then, with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives, let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the European Parliament and its committees.
9301	Everything that I have just said, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates that the Commission is resolved to taken the views of Parliament into account.
9302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to thank Mr Procacci for his report.
9303	However, I should also like to extend thanks to the various committees involved and Parliament as a whole for the broad support which they have given the LEADER+ initiative.
9304	This initiative should give the countryside new impetus to develop and test new and original ideas, ideas which it is then intended should at a later stage be incorporated in the general programmes as models.
9305	I am also pleased that Parliament essentially supports the Commission' s view that LEADER+ should be applied in all rural areas, that overriding priorities should be introduced and that, above all, active cooperation and networking between rural areas should be encouraged.
9306	In addition, I note that Parliament shares the Commission' s view that the preferred form for implementing LEADER+ is the use of global grants.
9307	Turning now to some of the individual questions raised here today, I can also confirm that we wish to have the widest possible partnership and participation in LEADER+.
9308	The various groups, be they environmental organisations or groups concerned with employment, have the possibility of taking part in drafting the Commission directives.
9309	And there will not be less funds available than in the current period either; there will be more.
9310	I should also like to remind you that the idea of setting up an observatory is nothing new.
9311	There was also an observatory under LEADER I and LEADER II.
9312	It has one purpose only and that is precisely to maintain active networking between the individual LEADER groups.
9313	The cost of this observatory is not permitted to exceed 2% of the LEADER budget.
9314	As far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned, I might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy, which means, in our view, that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of LEADER.
9315	I now come to the content of the report.
9316	In point 14, Parliament calls on the Commission to submit an evaluation report on LEADER II immediately.
9317	I should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because, as you know, it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for LEADER II funds to be disbursed.
9318	We therefore think that it would be more sensible to wait until the programme' s conclusion before carrying out the evaluation.
9319	We will obviously do this and will also forward a report to you on it.
9320	In point 18, Parliament suggests publishing a compendium of examples of successful initiatives.
9321	In response I can only say that this already exists.
9322	It has already been compiled by the Commission and I can make a copy available to any Member of this House who is interested.
9323	In point 21, Parliament stresses that the guidelines in LEADER+ now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start.
9324	I can only fully share your concern.
9325	As soon as the opinion is adopted here in Parliament, the guidelines for LEADER+ will again be presented to the STAR Committee so that the Member States can confirm the provisional agreement which they gave on 14 November.
9326	I assume that the Commission will then be able to adopt the definitive version of the guidelines in March or April.
9327	And as soon as these are published in the Official Journal the remaining months - in fact six months - can be used to submit LEADER+ programmes.
9328	I believe that it is important to point out one thing: expenditure effected under LEADER+ is eligible from the time that the Commission programme starts running.
9329	For all programmes submitted before 30 April of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 January.
9330	Finally, under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines.
9331	Having given them thorough consideration, I can tell you that the proposals made under paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 7 are acceptable to the Commission and are adopted.
9332	The proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under LEADER+ is a maximum of 5 months.
9333	The amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has, in our view, been overtaken by events because, following consultations with the representatives of the Member States in the STAR Committee, this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by Parliament.
9334	That therefore leaves only the amendment proposed under paragraph 3. The Commission can only endorse this request because of course it corresponds precisely to what the Commission itself had originally proposed.
9335	I must add, however, that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States.
9336	An amendment was therefore made in the committee, but the Commission will now again take account of Parliament' s concern in the revised version and table the guidelines in that form.
9337	It will also continue to fight for Member States' acceptance of this.
9338	I will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled.
9339	Here there are only three which the Commission cannot accept, Amendments Nos 3, 12 and 13. It can accept all of the others either in full or in essence.
9340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an exceptionally fortunate circumstance that we are debating the EQUAL initiative in the European Parliament just at this time.
9341	Recently, because of political developments in Austria, there is growing unease within Europe. Political demonstrations are taking place as well as political dialogue.
9342	It is worth stressing that both Parliament and the Commission must put forward specific policies.
9343	We need specific proposals, both for legislation and for action programmes associated with the fight against discrimination and the formation of free and fair societies.
9344	So I will make brief mention of the package against discrimination and take this opportunity to ask the competent parliamentary committees to appoint their rapporteurs so that we can move ahead with the anti-discrimination package as soon as possible.
9345	I now come to the EQUAL initiative, which is, of course, based on Article 13.
9346	The EQUAL initiative relates to all forms of discrimination within the meaning of Article 13, namely the fight against discrimination based on race, gender, age, and special needs.
9347	I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Stenzel, because her effort to reach agreement on the EQUAL initiative has proved exceptionally difficult and complex, both because some of the committees involved view the issue in a different light and because it is a very sensitive political issue.
9348	The first comment, which has been made by many others too, is whether women should be mentioned separately.
9349	I agree that Article 13 contains something we have expressed our disagreement about, but that is how the Treaty stands right now and among the categories of types of discrimination, discrimination on the grounds of gender holds equal place.
9350	So on the basis of the Treaty as it stands today, the EQUAL initiative is structured in that way.
9351	I would like to remind you, however, that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared, the fifth programme for equality between men and women.
9352	I have classified the issues raised by the honourable Members into four groups.
9353	Firstly, the enlargement of the thematic areas.
9354	As in employment strategy, there are four thematic areas: employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities, and we agree that those thematic areas should be enlarged in line with the European Parliament' s proposals.
9355	To answer the concern whether there is a risk that a country might concentrate all the funds on one of the categories suffering discrimination, I will say that the initiative states clearly that the Member States must submit one thematic category for each group that is suffering discrimination.
9356	The second subject is flexibility and simplification.
9357	I agree with Mr Leinen that the wording of the initiative is indeed very difficult and hard to understand.
9358	That is why the services are already trying to revise the text, simplify its structure and make its wording easier to grasp.
9359	As regards the subject of flexibility, we propose development partnerships and cooperation both at the geographical level where different kinds of groups would cooperate in a specific geographical area to combat discrimination in the workplace, and at the thematic level where, for example, cooperation could take place in a specific economic sector.
9360	This would allow Member States great flexibility to tailor development cooperation to their own particular needs.
9361	Of course, a prerequisite for that is cooperation between the Member States, and a network which will assist the exchange of experience.
9362	Finally, I would like to mention technical assistance.
9363	We are trying to arrange that there will be four categories for which funding is available. First, funding for preparation; second, implementation; third, mutual cooperation to ensure the exchange of experience, and fourth, technical assistance.
9364	Since there has been great involvement and concern about how technical assistance is to be provided, we must say that external offices will be used.
9365	As Mr Barnier too pointed out, it is impossible for all the work previously done by external collaborators to be done now by the Commission' s staff.
9366	The aim at national and European level is to establish large action groups by tender, with a full description of the project for which external assistance is to be requested. We would expect from each technical office a full description of the product so that the work can be monitored and appraised.
9367	I want to stress that it is extremely important to promote this specific initiative as quickly as possible, both for reasons of political timing and because we believe that it is important that it should begin as planned, in other words, we must be absolutely ready by the end of 2000.
9368	Thank you, Commissioner.
9369	I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees.
9370	The debate is closed.
9371	The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
9372	(The sitting was closed at 8.40 p.m.)
9373	Approval of the Minutes of the two previous sittings
9374	The Minutes of the sittings of Thursday 3 February and Monday 14 February have been distributed.
9375	The Minutes of 3 February were originally distributed in Brussels so perhaps this is why some Members did not receive them.
9376	Are there any comments?
9377	(The Minutes were approved)
9378	Madam President, my habit is always to be here for the opening of the part-session on Monday afternoons at 5.00 p.m.
9379	Yesterday it was impossible for myself and many MEPs to be here, because the 2.15 p.m. Air France flight, which normally brings us here, was cancelled, with no explanation from the airline, and we therefore arrived very late.
9380	If Air France insists on boycotting the European Parliament, we should take measures to prevent this occurring again.
9381	Thank you, Mr Medina Ortega.
9382	I too wholeheartedly regret this situation.
9383	Would you be so kind as to write to me so that I have proof with which to tackle the competent authorities of both Air France and the French Government?
9384	This situation really cannot continue and we must therefore protest most strongly.
9385	Madam President, I had the same experience as Mr Medina Ortega yesterday.
9386	I feel that the French authorities - which have the honour of housing the European Parliament in Strasbourg - should be aware of their responsibility to ensure adequate connections with all the capitals of the Union.
9387	Absolutely, Mr Napolitano. Thank you.
9388	Madam President, off the subject of aeroplane delays, I wish to apologise for the absence yesterday of my colleague in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Caroline Lucas, who is a British Member.
9389	She could not be here because she was arrested yesterday morning during an anti-nuclear demonstration in Glasgow.
9390	Although her identity was noted and her position as a Member of the European Parliament was very apparent, she was still held in custody all day.
9391	I regard this as absolutely unacceptable and would ask you to contact the British authorities in order to ensure that this does not happen again and that Mrs Lucas receives an apology. I have written to you in this respect together with my colleague, Mrs Hautala.
9392	Thank you, Mr Lannoye.
9393	I have received your letter and have already contacted the British Permanent Representative.
9394	Madam President, I should like to make a request in connection with today' s vote which I started to make yesterday during the debate on the EQUAL report.
9395	I should like the vote on the Community EQUAL initiative to be postponed because we need a bit more time to negotiate an important point.
9396	I am optimistic and quite relaxed and confident about the vote; we shall gain broad support for this opinion on EQUAL.
9397	We just need a bit more time to work out the details on the asylum question and I would therefore request that the vote be postponed from this morning.
9398	Madam President, to follow on from the point that Mr Lannoye made: Mrs Lucas was arrested just outside Glasgow for protesting against the Trident base at Faslane.
9399	I have a lot of sympathy with that protest.
9400	I have, however, no sympathy for Mrs Lucas trying to hide behind her Parliamentary immunity.
9401	I have also been arrested for protesting at Faslane.
9402	I did not hide behind any immunity.
9403	I took the punishment that came to me.
9404	Mrs Lucas should do the same.
9405	Madam President, I would like to comment on the request Mrs Stenzel has made to postpone the vote on the Community initiative EQUAL until tomorrow.
9406	In fact, this initiative was the subject of a very lively debate in committee, and, given that it is a major Commission proposal, which refers to the agreements we reached last year, I consider it admissible.
9407	We agree with Mrs Stenzel that the request to postpone the vote is admissible in the interests of achieving the greatest possible agreement between the groups, so that Parliament can express its position on this initiative with the broadest majority possible.
9408	Does anyone want to speak against Mrs Stenzel' s request, as supported by Mrs Ghilardotti?
9409	If not, then we will proceed to the vote.
9410	(Parliament approved the request)
9411	Madam President, under Rule 29(4) you should be kept informed by political groups of any Members who have joined a new political group or who have left a political group.
9412	Have you received any notification of any Members leaving the Group of the European People's Party or does the Austrian People's Party continue to sit in that political group?
9413	Mr Corbett, I have not received any notification.
9414	Madam President, I am amazed at Mr Corbett' s reaction.
9415	He should find other ways of raising his profile than expressing views on such matters here.
9416	We are solidly with our Austrian friends who have proven to be good Europeans in the past.
9417	They have our full support.
9418	(Applause)
9419	Agenda
9420	With regard to the agenda for Thursday, following a request made yesterday in plenary, I propose extending the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance by half an hour to 6.00 p.m. when the vote will take place.
9421	(Parliament gave its assent)
9422	Commission's strategic objectives and legislative programme
9423	The next item is the joint debate on the Commission statements on its strategic objectives for the coming five years and the annual legislative programme for 2000.
9424	I therefore immediately give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
9425	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking, and this is why I preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech, which is available in four languages.
9426	To respect my speaking time, I will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme: a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century, when it is right and proper to see Europe in a broader perspective, a Europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation.
9427	Let us remember that for half a century, Europe has provided us with peace, security and freedom and a united Europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity.
9428	We are now seeing the beginning of a strong recovery, which it appears may even be sustainable for a good while yet if we are prudent with our policies. This recovery is the logical consequence of the efforts we have made, but it comes at a price: it follows the restructuring of public accounts in European countries, which have kept inflation under control with a policy wisely intended to control costs and increase productivity in a Europe that has begun a vigorous restructuring of its own industries, banks and public services, even though this process is not yet complete and still has a long way to go.
9429	Nevertheless, despite these aspects, European citizens are disappointed and concerned: by unemployment which is not falling quickly enough; by a Europe trailing behind in technology, and seemingly falling even further behind, and in particular a scientific sector which is starting to lag a long way behind too; by the European institutions which appear distant and do not seem to be in step with the times, starting with the Commission itself.
9430	The crisis in the Commission was, in fact, a crucial point in the relationship between Europe and its citizens, and the low turnout at the European elections was a worrying indication of this.
9431	Even stronger still, however, is the sense of insecurity, the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards, a world which is completely changing, where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference.
9432	This is not the first time this has happened: Europe was once confronted with a similar transformation, an explosion of its markets, a change in its points of reference and a different view of the world.
9433	I am referring to the sixteenth century when the discovery of America turned everything upside down.
9434	Some countries - such as France and Spain - managed to meet the challenge, giving rise to great nation States; other countries - such as Italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium: headway in science, technology, economic progress, defence structures and military organisation, philosophy and literature.
9435	Today, Europe is facing a similar challenge, and we know that, just as history has been unforgiving in the past, it will not be forgiving in the present.
9436	In this context of wholesale change, and in order to prevent our nation States vanishing again, in the wake of globalisation which is creating hitherto unprecedented scales and challenges, Europe needs to be economically strong, because globalisation demands unity, because every day we hear news of new agreements at world level and news of changes at European level too.
9437	But more vital still is a Europe that feels strong in the political arena.
9438	In years past, the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions, the mainstay of European life.
9439	Today, the new frontiers of European integration are political frontiers: common foreign and security policy, justice and internal security, and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based.
9440	The Commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005, a programme that was immediately sent to the European Parliament and with which you are already familiar, so I will not go into detail about it now.
9441	Some of you may find it lacks detail, but no political structure sets out detailed five-year programmes.
9442	This is the European Union, not the Soviet Union.
9443	Our programme highlights the major points of reference, the major areas for action: firstly, the development of new forms of governance for Europe; secondly, extension and enlargement of the area of peace, freedom, and security; thirdly, the launch of a new stage in the growth of the economy; fourthly, safeguarding and improving quality of life.
9444	These will be our major guidelines for action over the next five years.
9445	With regard to the first area - new forms of governance for Europe - you already know that the Commission has undertaken to produce a White Paper and not a full legislative text since, in the light of major issues which are changing the structure of the way we interact, the Commission is first of all preparing for a debate; we will subsequently discuss the content with you; this will give rise to a policy document, and finally, a legislative document.
9446	This is an effective, transparent way to proceed and involve all the European institutions and the citizens of Europe.
9447	This White Paper is a response to the challenges that enlargement is forcing on us, an enlargement that is forcing us to rethink the workings of all our institutions, rethink our very policies - all our policies - and above all rethink what we must continue to do at Union level when the Member States number 25 or 30, and what will be the best thing to do at individual State level, at regional level and at local government level.
9448	But it is not only enlargement that is urging us towards this rethink: as I said a few moments ago, it is also economic and political globalisation itself.
9449	We must govern Europe in such a way as to make us more efficient, to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved, starting with the important issue of the involvement of women.
9450	One of the main differences in the comparison made recently between Europe and the United States was not so much job mobility or risk capital, as women' s involvement in economic life, an issue that has much more prominence in the United States than in Europe.
9451	This is a field where Europe has, nevertheless, always been in the vanguard. We therefore need to reflect on this at length and with an open mind, and all the institutions - Commission, Parliament, Council - will have to consider their own roles and their own policies.
9452	We shall therefore get straight back to work on this White Paper, although in order to finish it, we shall have to wait for the results of the Intergovernmental Conference, and it will therefore not be ready until spring 2001.
9453	It will not be a philosophical Paper, but a practical Paper, full of focused proposals.
9454	We - the Commission - are the first to know that we must have a total rethink, and we shall therefore do two things: we are, and will continue to be, fully committed to internal reform, and we shall rethink our policies in detail.
9455	I have asked all the Commissioners - and I shall ask them once again in a still more analytical way - to pinpoint all the activities that we can forgo.
9456	The Commission must define what its fundamental activities are, what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities, thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries, regions and local communities.
9457	So we shall be freeing up new resources, but - I fear, and I want to state this before Parliament - the time will come when these new resources that we are already freeing up will, in turn, be insufficient in terms of allowing us to address our new tasks: I am thinking of enlargement, the new sector of justice and home affairs, health issues and environmental matters.
9458	When that time comes, when we have used up all our resources, I shall not hesitate to come here before you to request further resources, but what I am saying now is that if we are not given these necessary resources, we shall have to refuse to take on any new duties because the available resources will not be commensurate with the new tasks that we will be taking on.
9459	As for internal reform, you well know how committed my Commission has been to this since day one.
9460	I know full well that we will not be able to achieve any political objective if the Commission does not undertake vigorous and comprehensive internal reform, if it does not become more efficient, if it does not increase efficiency in all sectors, starting with the sector in which the worst backlogs have built up in the past - external aid.
9461	Providing aid rapidly, when it is needed, saves human lives; in many cases providing it late is worse than not providing it at all.
9462	When I speak about external aid, my thoughts immediately turn to the Balkans. There is cause for hope thanks to the commitment of our workers on the ground, an extraordinary commitment given our organisational problems.
9463	My thoughts also turn to Bernard Kouchner' s efforts, of the stability pact that we all vigorously support with total dedication, but I also think of new events, such as Croatia, where the situation has changed in a few weeks: the European institutions immediately opened the way to dialogue with this country and received the news knowing full well that the only way to resolve not only Bosnia' s problems, but more particularly Serbia' s problems is to throw a curtain of democracy around Serbia.
9464	This is the new element that we must help to bring to the Balkans.
9465	We must increase our efficiency in this area. We must reopen the Danube to boats.
9466	It is contradictory to offer aid to Romania and Bulgaria yet leave these countries unable to harness their greatest resource.
9467	We must decontaminate the river and, in view of this, over the next few days the Commissioner responsible for the environment will be putting forward specific plans to monitor this serious problem.
9468	We have done a lot in the Balkans: the new European Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo, the Balkans Task Force and new regulations to speed up procedures.
9469	Nevertheless, we definitely have to do more.
9470	We must liberalise trade within the region and between the region and the European Union; we must contribute to building infrastructural links that will end its centuries-old isolation; we must intensify efforts to build a democratic, pluralist society in these countries with institutions, public structures, police forces and a structured civil society, but, above all, we must press these countries to work together in the context of a united region, as regards both politics and the economy.
9471	If we do not do this, we shall have failed in our duty.
9472	Remember that the Marshall Plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources: it was even more effective because it made us Europeans work together towards a new horizon; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy.
9473	This is what we need to do for the Balkans.
9474	Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security, peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage.
9475	We are clearly, once again, returning to enlargement, which must be put into practice in tandem with the extension of the area of security, peace and freedom.
9476	We have made many promises in this regard, but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread.
9477	Indeed, enlargement, which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - I am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete, objective criteria, and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and, to an even greater degree, public opinion in our own Member States.
9478	There will be friendship, calm, openness but also a certain strictness in the enlargement process.
9479	I repeat: we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own Member States with even greater reassurance.
9480	Our responsibilities do not stop at enlargement, or at the Balkans.
9481	There are certain other key issues: relations with Ukraine, relations with Russia, relations with neighbouring countries and more importantly, the important question of relations with the southern Mediterranean which will be a crucial point for European history, and for security and peace in Europe for future generations.
9482	In this regard, we have a responsibility towards the whole of Africa.
9483	In recent times, Africa has raised hopes and has received offers of help, but nothing tangible has yet been achieved. In recent years in Africa, we have not seen a shift from totalitarian regimes to democracy, but quite the contrary - a shift from democracy to totalitarian regimes.
9484	Africa is, for us, a worrying topic for discussion. We therefore have another duty at international level, which has already been proposed by the Commissioner responsible for trade: the undertaking to relaunch the Millennium Round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries, not just in terms of writing off debts, but also via the unilateral opening-up to trade with the poorest countries in the world, with a great deal of willingness on our part, which we had already proposed prior to Seattle but which we could not put into practice.
9485	We need to provide alternative answers, otherwise episodes such as those seen in Seattle will be repeated over and over and will come to hamper one of Europe' s positive roles in history.
9486	All over the world, Europe' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities.
9487	We should remember that we, the European Union, are a union of minorities: we are all a minority within Europe.
9488	There are concerns even within the Fifteen, concerns which may even surface again in the next decade.
9489	I am referring to the situation in Austria, where the Commission has remained true to its role, being duty-bound to work towards the cohesion of the Union, but also the unwavering guardian of the Treaties, ready to punish every minor breach of the principles of democracy, law and respect for minorities.
9490	Some people have criticised me over the congratulatory message I sent to Chancellor Schüssel.
9491	My message to you is: do not take the necessary and proper courtesies of form to mean that I have been less firm in the content.
9492	Reread the letter: The reference to the fundamental values of the Union is taken - and this is more than mere coincidence - from Article 6 of the Treaty, I repeat, Article 6 of the Treaty.
9493	I would also ask you whether you believe that any other European head of government has ever been reminded of these principles by the Commission when they were elected.
9494	This is what we wish to do: maintain our role as a supranational structure, maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties, but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts.
9495	Last November, the Commission tabled a proposal for an anti-racism directive.
9496	I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion.
9497	I will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme: the economy and quality of life.
9498	I have already talked about the economy: we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs.
9499	We must continue to keep inflation under control, proceed with liberalisation, ensure more competition, encourage the dissemination of information technology and all new technologies; push forward with science, and push back scientific boundaries, and develop an appetite for being at the cutting edge of science.
9500	The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology, employment - will be a decisive summit.
9501	It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind.
9502	We are at last holding it and cannot let this opportunity slip through our fingers.
9503	Finally, our last commitment is to improve quality of life.
9504	We have opened this chapter with the White Paper on Food Safety: we now need to make significant headway in the environment sector.
9505	The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment.
9506	The time has come to discuss, and then establish, a body for emergency civil protection in Europe.
9507	All too often we find ourselves calling for this after a disaster has occurred.
9508	I think it would be appropriate to begin thinking about these things before disasters happen.
9509	These are the challenges that we - the Commission but also all the other European institutions - are facing.
9510	How will we judge, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the five years of our mandate?
9511	How are we going to assess the results of these five years?
9512	I do not know, but one benchmark we could certainly use is the challenge we must take up together.
9513	Let us take a very simple parameter: turnout at the next European elections.
9514	If it is higher than at the previous elections, it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge.
9515	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with all these major political challenges, but precisely because of the recovery that is now underway, we are also faced with major opportunities.
9516	This, ladies and gentlemen, could be the decade of Europe.
9517	Indeed, I would say that this must be the decade of Europe.
9518	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the Commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate.
9519	We also welcome the conclusions which we find in this document.
9520	And we welcome the broad outlines of the speech which President Prodi has just given.
9521	We read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the Prodi Commission will be a time of major changes.
9522	Europe will press ahead with integration; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will, in the end, reunite our continent.
9523	A demanding, ambitious, perhaps even prophetic task and we wish you every success, Mr President of the Commission.
9524	However, we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present.
9525	I say that in all earnestness and I have chosen my words carefully.
9526	I refer to the current debate on the present conflicts in the European Union.
9527	We in the European Union are one Community.
9528	We belong together, even when there are problems.
9529	Now is not the time to isolate but to unite and to complete together the task of unifying Europe.
9530	Mr President of the Commission, you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks.
9531	You have seen yourself as the guardian of the Treaties, and that is indeed your role.
9532	For that and for the letter to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria which you mentioned, we expressly respect, acknowledge and support you.
9533	(Applause)
9534	Mr President of the Commission, our objectives are one and the same: we want a strong Europe in the twenty-first century, a democratic Europe which is able to act.
9535	A Europe which defends its values of human dignity and democratic rule of law both internally and to the outside world and, at the same time, looks after its global interests with dignity, patience and convincing self-confidence.
9536	Europe' s message, the European Union' s message to the world should not be one of arrogance or even European nationalism, no; it must be one of cooperation, partnership and peaceful development.
9537	Globalisation gives us the chance to shape the world, which is becoming smaller and smaller, as a world of peaceful competition and solidarity.
9538	Seen in this light, globalisation is more of an opportunity than a danger, more of a coming together than a segregation, more mutual enrichment than separation.
9539	But we also know that we can only shape the huge challenge of globalisation together as Europeans.
9540	Globalisation is not only an economic process, it is also a cultural process, which is why we say: we want partnership in the world, we do not want the clash of civilisations which many are predicting, we want partnership, a meeting, exchange and peace.
9541	But we also say: we want to defend this European Community of tolerance, which is why a common foreign, security and defence policy is so important.
9542	Negotiations with six central European countries are starting today, bringing the European family a step closer together.
9543	We agree with what you said about the Barcelona process. All the countries in the Mediterranean area must acknowledge human dignity, democracy and the rule of law.
9544	For us, the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, it is not only the reform of the institutions of the European Union which will be important in the next five years; it is also important that we declare our faith in the single European currency and use the policy of stability as a basis for consolidating the European currency in coming years.
9545	We therefore take the uncompromising view that we must maintain a resolute and consistent stability pact.
9546	We need structural reforms in the European economy.
9547	Most importantly, we need to restore a European economy in which performance pays and people can work as entrepreneurs.
9548	It would be Europe' s undoing if we were to end up with just a few multinationals and no future for small and medium-sized businesses in Europe.
9549	(Applause) The Commission has an important role to play here by getting a coordinated policy under way with the nation states to reduce taxes so that entrepreneurship pays.
9550	We too want to help put Europe on its feet.
9551	You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity.
9552	We support that.
9553	The nations, regions, towns and communities of Europe will be preserved.
9554	However, there is a current trend - the "fauna, flora, habitat" directive was quoted as an example - which, in my country at least, creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to Brussels and that Brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the European Union.
9555	I merely mention it as an example of where we must take care and where I would recommend that we try to achieve more legal security in the future.
9556	Mr President of the Commission, allow me to close with these words: as the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, we have every interest in a strong Commission.
9557	If you are persuasive in your actions, we all reap the benefits.
9558	In this respect we wish you every success. However, we are also aware of our role as the Commission' s watchdog.
9559	If we have the merest suspicion that you are failing to safeguard the law of the European Union, and at present we have no cause for complaint - on the contrary we acknowledge that this is not the case -, but if European law is infringed then we shall fight any such infringement uncompromisingly, precisely because peace in the European Union is founded on this law.
9560	We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world.
9561	(Applause)
9562	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the presentation of, and the first ever debate on, the Commission' s programme for government - the word President Prodi is so fond of; as I am -for the whole legislature.
9563	Firstly, this is welcome because it explains, to our fellow citizens, what we are intending to do and what we are already doing. We must also express our regret at the current situation and try to improve on it for the future.
9564	We have taken almost eleven months - President Prodi was nominated at the Berlin Summit in March last year - to establish a legislative programme. This is not entirely President Prodi' s fault.
9565	We are recovering from a crisis. However, I believe that, in the future, it would be appropriate for the investiture of the next Commission to coincide with the presentation of a legislative programme.
9566	We are breaking new ground and doing so in complex circumstances.
9567	President Prodi began his speech by talking of a paradoxical situation, a paradox in the European Union and also throughout the world: we are at the dawn of a new secular millennium, dominated by the web of the Internet and the sorcery of biotechnological advance, and we are living through a genuine change of epoch. However, to focus on the European Union as it is today, and on the subject of government and governance - a word which, at least in Spanish, brings to mind the previous name of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, although it may be an appropriate word anyway -, the most important thing is that the European Union be provided with a good government, and, since President Prodi always defends his home town, Bologna, I would advise him to go to Siena for a while and see something which we all understand: the frescos of Ambrogio Lorenzetti, which speak of bon governo [good government] and mal governo [bad government].
9568	What we need here is good government, Madam President.
9569	Since we are recovering from a very complex crisis, we must try to enhance our institutions and give them substance.
9570	I would like to remind the House of something which we often forget, and that is that the investiture of the Prodi Commission, last September, received wide support. In our opinion, this demonstrates that the majority of us are in favour of progress and in favour of Europe.
9571	I would like to point out that, within this broad consensus, there were some Groups which said that the majority of Parliament should form an opposition to the majority of the Council.
9572	It is precisely this which, in a sense, is hindering the important process of developing codecision within the legislative programme.
9573	I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature.
9574	On the other hand, we are witnessing the birth of a political Europe, which entails a collection of shared values which we all agree upon, and a European Union at the service of the citizens.
9575	With regard to the events of recent days, I would like to say - and I am saying this on the day, and the week, that the Intergovernmental Conference is starting - we have to place far more value and fundamental emphasis upon the charter on fundamental rights which, given what we have said about the Austrian crisis, I believe should be fully included in the Treaties.
9576	I have absolutely no doubt about this and I believe it is an essential point.
9577	In this regard, Madam President, I would like to say that we should remain aware and watch our language.
9578	Last week, the new Minister for Finance of the Austrian coalition described the Austrian Parliament as a farce and a theatre.
9579	Those of us who have had to live under a dictatorship know of the existence of dictatorships with cardboard governments.
9580	There can be no democracy without a living parliament.
9581	I believe that this type of language is extremely dangerous and I would like to condemn it here and now.
9582	With regard to the four great priorities which President Prodi systematically refers to and with regard to his analysis of the challenges facing us, I would say that we are very much in agreement.
9583	Nevertheless, I would point out to the Commission that, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, there has been a change of priorities.
9584	We understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda, which also includes what is known as 'quality of life' priorities, that is to say, the rights of citizens as consumers and as people, in relation to those questions which we always talk about, but never give sufficient priority to, that is, the European social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances, consumer rights, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
9585	When speaking of the commitment to full employment, we have to bear in mind that, these days, full employment does not mean what it meant in the era of Beveridge at the end of the Second World War, that is to say, employment for the male head of the household.
9586	We must argue for equality of the sexes, the famous 'gender mainstreaming' , which is one of the least developed questions in the Prodi Commission' s programme.
9587	This means prioritising sex equality, the adaptation of the social model and, above all, an unequivocal fight against populism whenever our economic and social cohesion is under threat.
9588	This must also be a main priority in the work of the Commission.
9589	It must be complemented with a forthright fight against racism and intolerance so that we may come to recognise, in practice, the evolution of a Union which has become a magnet for the rest of the world and an immigration zone, given its prosperity and seasonal demographics.
9590	I believe that this is the first objective for us to pursue.
9591	In this respect I would also add another element, which is economic government, given the single currency, and I believe this is inescapable.
9592	This is another question on which the Commission must make progress.
9593	With regard to the ambitious objectives and, above all, the Commission' s important step of adopting this broadening of the process of negotiation and integration, I would like - and my Group would like - more clarification in relation to the revision of Agenda 2000.
9594	Does the Commission think that there will be never be any revision?
9595	The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential.
9596	With regard to governance in general, I believe it might be worth thinking in theoretical terms.
9597	I would like to remind you of one thing: it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here.
9598	I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity.
9599	If we are capable of defining what our area of governance is, I think that would be very positive.
9600	In all other areas, I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion.
9601	Not only should the Commission discuss this, but also our states, our parliaments and our civil society.
9602	Madam President, I would like to refer briefly to the last objective, which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental: the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the Europe' s role in the world.
9603	It appears that there is agreement and support with regard to the prioritisation of South-East Europe, with regard to enlargement and - as I have said already - with regard to the process of integration and the strengthening of the Euro-Mediterranean programme and our ability to prevent conflicts, as well as an issue which we seldom talk about; the North-South challenge.
9604	We must not forget Africa, a continent which has been forsaken, not only by God, but also by Europe, nor our important contribution to cooperating with development.
9605	Lastly, an issue for which we are increasingly responsible, as the world' s foremost economic and commercial power, that is, Europe' s voice in the world, which does not simply mean adopting an active approach to the Millennium Round.
9606	It means the reform of the United Nations and the international financial institutions, for which Europe has an enormous responsibility.
9607	Above all, Madam President - and here I will end - we must be able to express this in plain language, clearly, by changing to some extent the jargon which we use, because we cannot ask the Europeans, who are living through profound changes, to take part and show enthusiasm towards us if we continue to use a form of language which they find completely inaccessible.
9608	This is a fundamental way to increase and strengthen their confidence in us. I hope this will be demonstrated when we hold the next European elections.
9609	Mr President of the Commission, may I say to you on behalf of my group that we very much support the point of departure, the core of the analysis and the strategy that you bring to this House today: that is that the stakes now are irrefutably political.
9610	They are political because we are moving on.
9611	Even though we have not yet finished constructing all the economic building blocks, we are moving on from that kind of functionalist building of Europe to a much more challenging political perspective.
9612	The challenge of enlargement is political.
9613	The challenge of creating an area of justice and home affairs, of dealing with asylum and immigration and crime, is very political.
9614	The challenge of a common foreign security and defence policy is very political.
9615	Because it is political it is more complex. Because it is political it is more sovereignty-sensitive.
9616	Because it is more sovereignty-sensitive it is more voter-and citizen-sensitive.
9617	We need, therefore, to find a way forward towards these political ends and objectives, to address, not merely the scepticism but the greatest enemy, the apathy which you identify.
9618	The means of achieving this are difficult but they are real.
9619	I applaud your view that we need more synergy between our institutions, not just between Commission and Parliament, but also between these and the Council to underscore the extent of the political challenge.
9620	We need more dialogue, not just with each other but also with civil society.
9621	We need more explanation of what Europe is about.
9622	We need to be able to confront fears and anxieties, because in many instances the greatest fear is fear itself.
9623	Perhaps with more dialogue and explanation we can overcome some of that.
9624	My group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a White Paper next spring addressing the issue of governance.
9625	As we look at the Europe of networking which you describe, it is very important that Europe concentrates on its core business, that we have the courage to suggest areas where Europe may perhaps stand back.
9626	That could convince people that Europe, in its governance, is not something run exclusively from Brussels, which concentrates and soaks up more powers, more decisions, more authority.
9627	That is the political core of the challenge and I think you have identified it well before this House today.
9628	For my group, enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured, be they governance, be they the intergovernmental conference, be they reform of the institutions.
9629	We see enlargement as a process of partnership, not a process of "them and us".
9630	We see enlargement as a positive sum gain for member and candidate states.
9631	I suggest to the Commission, as a repository of an enormous amount of detailed information on enlargement, to present a document, that explains the value of enlargement, not just in budgetary and financial terms but in a broader sense; a document, like the Cecchini report before the Single Act, that explains to people in a way which engages them in the debate that this is the grand, historic challenge facing Europe today.
9632	We need to be able to prepare that ground carefully.
9633	On south-eastern Europe, I agree with your view that we measure political institutions through their achievements.
9634	In the lifetime of this Commission and this Parliament we must succeed in the task of winning the difficult and uneasy peace in south-eastern Europe.
9635	We applaud the stabilisation and association agreements, but we would like to see more.
9636	We will publish this material and bring it forward in the debate on the Swoboda report later this week.
9637	The strategic paper emphasises the global role of the European Union.
9638	Our central aim must be to give the Union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid, trade and finance.
9639	At the beginning of this decade we must foresee how our institutions will develop internationally by its end, and notably where we fit into international monetary bodies, where we fit into UN agencies and so on.
9640	We need to open that debate.
9641	In conclusion, this morning, the day after St Valentine's Day, the newspapers are saying that your honeymoon period is over.
9642	I do not know whether you are a romantic or not, Mr Prodi.
9643	Perhaps this is a very unromantic thing to say on such a morning.
9644	However, we in the Liberal Group welcome this because it means we are now settling down to business.
9645	That is the way it should be.
9646	Regarding the many adjectival descriptions of Europe you addressed in your speech - an energetic Europe, an enterprising Europe, a Europe that has a human face and is inclusive - let me, in a word dear to the heart of my Liberal colleagues, give in one adjective, one description of the kind of Europe we want to see in your plan for governance: an enabling Europe.
9647	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I greatly admire the openness with which you admit that the European Union must change fundamentally.
9648	You gave consideration to important questions of principle in your programme.
9649	I believe that the public will start to show more interest in politics if we can tackle the major issues alongside the day-to-day ones.
9650	At the same time, however, it has to be said that, unfortunately, your programme reminds me in many ways of a party manifesto.
9651	There are a lot of good intentions in it, but it very much lacks concrete proposals concerning how this can all be achieved.
9652	As in any other party manifesto, it is full of contradictions.
9653	I would like to take this opportunity to help you recognise them.
9654	First let me speak about the economy and social development.
9655	We have to be able to think hard about how we can coordinate the aim of competitiveness with the aim of full employment; that is what was mentioned in your programme.
9656	Should we at long last be drafting convergence criteria, in which - as you in fact hint at in this programme - the aim would be that unemployment in no Member State should be higher than, say, the three most successful countries in this matter?
9657	Ecological tax reform is what my group would like to stress the importance of, because we can only create employment and sustainable development by changing our taxation structure. But, unfortunately, as we all know, this is an area where the European Union is totally unable to act.
9658	Do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference.
9659	The EU can only achieve authority in the fact that it focuses on tasks that individual countries cannot attend to alone.
9660	In this respect, Parliament will definitely defend, along with yourselves, the importance of supranational decision-making.
9661	One contradiction within your programme relates to globalisation.
9662	I think it is very creditable that you should mention the concept of 'global administration' , as others too have said here.
9663	However, please learn from the events of Seattle: we have to be able to combine the freedom in world trade, on the one hand, with all those values of human importance that we wish to defend, on the other.
9664	You must embark on a dialogue with the international community.
9665	Do please try to make the international organisations democratic.
9666	The European Union could be critically important in a process in which the United Nations and the WTO really do become subject to democratic monitoring.
9667	We can submit motions for this together with you.
9668	Finally, I consider it a very positive sign that you speak so often about the civil society, although, unfortunately, this is another contradiction.
9669	You ought to also be able to draw conclusions at the IGC.
9670	We have to table motions proposing that our citizens might really have a direct impact on decision-making.
9671	What you just said is absolutely true: people want more engaged democracy.
9672	In my opinion, this is the only way if we want to gain the approval of the people with regard to Europe and their interest in Europe too.
9673	Madam President, my group was one of those which wanted to have a document allowing an exchange of views on the Commission' s strategic objectives within the group before this debate, instead of being reduced to an on-the-spot reaction in plenary.
9674	The main merit of the text of this communication is therefore the fact that it exists.
9675	We are also pleased to see certain statements and intentions which it contains and which Mr Prodi has just underlined and, in some cases, usefully clarified.
9676	The current globalisation process is - and I quote - 'exclusive rather than inclusive and has widened the inequalities' . The European Union' s objective must therefore be to help define new ground rules within the Union and in international relations.
9677	Clearly, many citizens are 'disenchanted and anxious' about the lack of real and lasting solutions to basic problems, such as unemployment and social exclusion, which affect our very existence. This must be one of our absolute priorities.
9678	We do need to rethink many aspects of current Community policy if the important and difficult project of enlargement is to be a success. We also need 'distinctive strategic partnerships' with our neighbours to the south and east in order to achieve stability and peace.
9679	There are plenty of areas for serious discussion.
9680	We will carefully study the planned White Papers and will participate constructively in the work begun or promised.
9681	It is in this spirit that I have three criticisms to make. These must be taken into account if we are truly to shape the new Europe, as proclaimed ambitiously by the title of the Commission document and Mr Prodi' s speech and do so in reality not rhetoric.
9682	The first and most serious criticism concerns the Commission' s propensity for rather grandiloquent self-satisfaction with regard to the European Union and for a cursory and even condescending view of our partners. The perfect illustration of this crippling flaw lies in the opening sentence of the Commission communication.
9683	This talks of the European Union as 'living proof that peace, stability, freedom and prosperity can be brought to a continent' and as a model showing the world the way forward. It concludes that 'our neighbours have the chance to join this prosperity, and we have a golden opportunity to enable them to do so' .
9684	A more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view.
9685	Similarly, the idea that the euro has fostered a consensus on wage moderation is not really borne out by the repeated nervous orders issued by the European Central Bank to the trade unions which are deemed to be too demanding.
9686	My second criticism follows on from the first.
9687	This extreme difficulty in seeing the contradictions of the current situation and, where necessary, confronting these is seriously limiting the will, duly confirmed by Mr Prodi, to grant public demands.
9688	For example, at least in the countries which I know well, I doubt that the intention, repeated three or four times in the Commission document, to reform 'Europe' s social protection, health care and pension systems ...in a climate of more cautious public spending' will meet the needs of those whose confidence we apparently want to win back.
9689	My third criticism stems from the first two. The weakness of the analysis and the obstacles to the necessary changes have resulted in a project whose scope is severely limited by an overabundance of generalisations, a rather indecisive approach and therefore a lack of impetus.
9690	But all is not lost.
9691	This is a starting point and we have five years to succeed, provided that the political will exists and is expressed with sufficient force and clarity.
9692	My group is fully intent on helping with this work.
9693	Madam President, reforming and democratising the institutions of the European Union are central to the historic and moral challenge of the enlargement process.
9694	This was the opening statement of Commission President, Prodi, when he presented the strategic objectives of the European Commission for the next five years.
9695	We await the White Paper on the governance of the European Union dealing with the issue of balance between Member States' governments and the European Union institutions which is to be published this summer.
9696	On this specific point I think it is important that we address the reform of the internal decision-making procedures of the Commission.
9697	The Commission, in its proposals to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference, has indicated that its preference lies in seeing smaller Member States lose their automatic right to nominate a member of the European Commission.
9698	This is a scenario whereby the European Union has a membership of over 25 Member States.
9699	I do not want to see a two-tier European Union built.
9700	I believe this would fly in the face of the spirit and objective of the Treaty of Rome and all subsequent treaties.
9701	There must be equality in terms of national representation within the Commission and within all the other European institutions.
9702	I would like to remind those who seek to eliminate the right of small Member States to nominate a European Commissioner that the United States of America gives smaller states the same recognition as larger states in the United States Senate.
9703	More or less each of the 50 states in the US has two elected positions in the United States Senate, regardless of its population.
9704	Any future reforms of the European Union treaties will require a referendum to be held in my country.
9705	It would be very difficult for those who propose a 'yes' vote in any such future treaty to win the support of the Irish people if we lose our right to have our nominee to the European Commission.
9706	Undoubtedly, reform of the European Council is also going to be included in this White Paper on the governance of the European Union which will be published this summer.
9707	Once again there are special areas of policy-making which should be left to the domain of the national Member States.
9708	I do not believe that there is broad support in Europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation, justice and home affairs, and foreign affairs at European Union level.
9709	At present, under Article 99 of the Treaty of Rome, decisions taken at EU level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity.
9710	I believe that this proposal should remain, as a common European taxation code would diminish rather than enhance the workings of the European Union.
9711	I support the enlargement of the European Union.
9712	I support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the Union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner.
9713	However, we must remember that the public opinion of 370 million people in the European Union is a vital factor in changing the EU treaties.
9714	Changes should not be brought about too quickly and cannot be too sweeping, otherwise public opinion will make ratification of any future European Union treaty very difficult indeed.
9715	Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radical Members.
9716	President of the Commission, a short while ago you said that no political structure sets out five-year plans.
9717	This is true, if we think of Russia' s plans in the thirties, but at the start of your mandate, a few months ago, you yourself announced at the Conference of Presidents that you would, however, be presenting a legislative programme, or rather, the major policy lines of the European government of which you are head and in the running of which we are engaged today.
9718	So, whether this is to be a government programme or a potential programme, the breakdown of the document you distributed to us and of the accompanying speech is not much more than a list of good intentions, or rather a list of issues on the table. It does not, however, give us the impression that the Commission is taking a clear position on any of these points, but that it is just doing the European Commission' s duty.
9719	In this House, in the past, large-scale debates have taken place on major strategic options which the Commission, under its power of initiative, launched, not as experiments, but as proposals which then made varying degrees of progress, but in any case did contribute to the integration and development of the European Union.
9720	In this case, Mr Prodi, we certainly have a kind of "Ten Commandments" : a whole raft of issues are listed, but if I may say so, we are left with the impression that the Commission is afraid to make any decision regarding what needs to be done about any of these points.
9721	There was only one point that you really stressed - too much in my opinion - and that was that it looks almost as if the highest priority task that you are setting yourself is to cease "unnecessary" activities.
9722	We should be careful, though, Mr Prodi, because we had a crisis of confidence in the previous Commission and backed this Commission - at least a parliamentary majority backed this Commission - precisely because, first and foremost, the reform of the Commission would bring consolidation, a new identity and a new awareness of being guided by a firm hand.
9723	Let us consider the scenario whereby the Commission, not believing itself to be equal to the task, wishes, or proposes to shed, for example, its powers to implement common policies, which it is nevertheless accorded by the Treaty.
9724	What do we expect from a government in any case?
9725	What do we ask of this structure - the European Community - which is, so to speak, ambiguous and unique?
9726	It is right for joint resources to be controlled supranationally and not to be delegated to the Member States or the TAOs, as has been the case in the past.
9727	It seems that you are proposing the same old menu, but with more unsatisfactory implications, restricting the Commission, so you say, to the task of drawing up a few White Papers, as you proposed.
9728	My fear - even if you shake your head, Mr Prodi - is that this will translate into what some countries have thought for years, that the Commission should be a simple secretariat for the Council of Ministers.
9729	If this is the role that the Commission intends to play over the next five years, we federalists are convinced, we are certain that this is not the right path to take and we shall send for you and judge what the Commission intends to do in this regard.
9730	The reform is important but, if it aggravates the situation, reduces or weakens the supranational powers of the Commission, then the structure of European integration, as planned by the founding fathers for the European Commission, will be at risk.
9731	As for the other points, Mr Prodi, I will take economic and social policy as an example: the European social model is certainly experiencing a major crisis and it is certainly not coincidental that unemployment tops the list of problems that none of our policies has managed to resolve, but it is not certain that it can be resolved by going through a list of problems that we have discussed in the past, without having a clear idea or proposal which takes note of the fact that Europe contains economies that are growing at some of the most sustainable rates and that it is not by chance that these are the economies which have made labour market flexibility and enterprise their prime objective.
9732	If we continue to get bogged down with proposals that have given extremely poor results so far, I do not know what we or the Commission will be able to do.
9733	The same goes for enlargement as an end in itself, without it being linked to a reform to make the European Union and its structures much more efficient, and to proposals that the Commission could have made at the IGC.
9734	Mr Prodi, there is one positive thing that I would like to say to you, perhaps contrary to the opinion of some Members, regarding the telegram that you sent to the Austrian Government.
9735	We approve of your position on this: you did well not to isolate that country any further.
9736	In any case, we shall see what specific steps transpire when the time comes for practical action.
9737	Mr Prodi, I repeat that this is, in our opinion, a slightly short-sighted view.
9738	Above all, it lacks drive in the sectors I have mentioned, for example, as regards the Balkans.
9739	Can we really continue to leave the Balkans out of the enlargement process, disregarding the fact that Croatia, Macedonia and other countries also have the right to a place in this House that is open to all?
9740	Madam President, Mr Prodi, I should like to applaud your proposal for a radical decentralisation of the Union' s activities and ask why, then, you are proposing a legislative programme which would lead to centralisation.
9741	I remember your predecessor' s speech five years ago.
9742	Like yourself, he promised "less and better" , but Mr Santer finished up by having delivered "much more and much worse" , and I do not believe that you, either, can deliver the goods you promise.
9743	You talk about decentralisation but practise centralisation.
9744	The legislative programme is, in fact, a litany of subjects over which the people are to be deprived of influence and in connection with which, Mr Prodi, you are to take influence away from the people, even on social questions.
9745	You talk about greater transparency, but produce proposals which would lead to documents which, at present, are available for public inspection being locked away.
9746	Your Commission consists of the only 20 people in the EU who can propose that the quantity of legislation should be reduced.
9747	Local politicians cannot do that, once legislation has been passed in Brussels.
9748	The legislative programme from the Commission ought at least, therefore, to be accompanied by as long a list of tasks which are to be referred back to the Member States and to the processes of popular democracy.
9749	Otherwise, the number of laws produced in Brussels will just keep on growing.
9750	We have passed 10 000 laws and as many amendments, and the applicant States have had 26 000 documents sent to them which, as debated by the Polish parliament, fill 140 000 sides of paper.
9751	Even by this stage, that is already too many by far.
9752	Brussels should make decisions on fewer matters and hand over more decisions to the people, the regions and the Member States. The only decisions which should remain with Brussels are those concerning cross-border issues which the national parliaments can no longer legislate on effectively.
9753	What is more, the work carried out in Brussels should be of a much higher quality and be completely transparent, so that people might at least have some small sense of owning the process, now that Mr Prodi and his predecessor have taken their autonomy away from them.
9754	I should also just like to draw Mr Dell' Alba' s attention to what the founding fathers of the European Union dreamed of.
9755	Take a look at Jean Monet' s memoirs.
9756	What he envisaged was what he called a small, practical secretariat.
9757	That is not what Mr Prodi is President of today.
9758	Madam President, this morning the Commission President, Mr Prodi, has set out ambitious goals for the European Union for the next five years, laudable aims indeed, to make a strong and effective European presence felt in the world: succeeding with enlargement, meeting the challenge of selling e-Europe, introducing better principles of governance.
9759	We accept that Europeans, particularly the younger generation, need to be given a broad perspective of where Europe will be in the years ahead.
9760	But how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high?
9761	We need to match this vision with reality.
9762	Here there are three elements I would like to contribute.
9763	Firstly, we need a successful European economy.
9764	We must ensure that unemployment rates continue to go down across Europe, confirm the trend in privatisation and deregulation, encourage the insertion of information technology and knowledge of the Internet, show that e-Europe is a good initiative.
9765	But we must avoid lurching back into the old-style regulation, stifling individual initiative and enterprise.
9766	We must not fear globalisation, but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society.
9767	Without a successful European economy we cannot meet the challenges ahead, particularly of enlargement.
9768	Secondly, we need to ensure that we legislate only when necessary - subsidiarity.
9769	Doing less but better - a central plank of the last Commission - needs to be the aim of this Commission too.
9770	We will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation.
9771	Mr Bonde was right to say that there is this image of doing less better and then suddenly we see an annual programme for the year 2000 of 500 proposals and recommendations, which seems to go in a different direction.
9772	We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes.
9773	Lastly, we need to ensure that there is proper, genuine reform of the European Commission.
9774	Yes, the Commission - guardian of the Treaties - is meant to be an independent body, but it also has to be accountable to European citizens through our Parliament.
9775	The information problem, which Mr Bonde just referred to, is treated like a straw in the wind, with the Commission seeming to restrict information to us, as citizens and as parliamentarians, although we have the right to it under the Treaties.
9776	The Commission is not in fact today a European government.
9777	The Commission does not reflect the majority in this particular Parliament.
9778	We in Parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in Europe.
9779	This governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the European Union, has its relevant role to play.
9780	Therefore we need to have credibility, coherence and confidence that in working together we can restore the image of the European Union to our citizens.
9781	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, numerous steps have been taken in the past to strengthen the European Union, from the euro to resolutions on a common security policy; even to the response by the 14, the Commission and Parliament to the new coalition in Austria.
9782	I fully endorse the philosophy and the principles behind these decisions.
9783	Nonetheless, I agree with you, Mr President of the Commission, that many more steps to strengthen the European Union will be needed in the future because the European Union is not strong enough either to master the huge, inevitable task of enlargement or to control current and potential movements which, to put it mildly, have an ambivalent attitude towards European values of democracy and tolerance and the desire to integrate all the people on our continent.
9784	That does not apply to Austria alone.
9785	The Union professes its faith in its fundamental values in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the institutions of the EU confirmed this faith once again when the new coalition was formed in Austria.
9786	However, the full potential of these values will only be realised if they are set out in comprehensive detail in and form part of the Treaty and, in the final analysis, represent legal claims on the part of individual citizens.
9787	When it comes down to it, Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty are not enough.
9788	In this sense, the Commission must insist, and I should like to endorse and confirm this here, that the new Charter of Fundamental Rights become part of the Treaty and create binding, enforceable rights.
9789	In this sense, the Commission must insist on building up the common area of freedom, security and justice and in this sense I disagree with the last two speakers.
9790	Only reasonable, feasible and humane principles of immigration and asylum law can counter the irrational, misleading and demagogic allegations of the extreme right.
9791	But, and I would like to stress this, this policy must also be accompanied by a coherent and convincing policy to promote employment and prevent social exclusion because unemployment, marginalisation and growing inequality are the best breeding grounds for anti-European, nationalistic actions and reactions.
9792	In this respect, Mr President of the Commission, I too should like to address the issue of globalisation which you speculated on and how it is perceived by large segments of the population.
9793	The feeling of being at the mercy of others, of lacking in influence and of having no protection from the state leads in the best case scenario to a lack of interest in politics and a refusal to vote, as in the European elections and, in the worst case scenario, to extremist voting patterns.
9794	The Union, like everyone else, has not yet understood how to present the EU to the citizens of the EU as a means of protection against the negative effects of globalisation.
9795	We are in the process of building a house but too few of our citizens really feel at home in our house.
9796	What we need are not just reforms of the World Trade Organisation and the economic architecture - and, significantly, the President of the Commission forgot to mention the reform of the financial institutions and international financial architecture; we also need confidence-building measures for our citizens, who rightly expect help and support from and in the EU with the inevitable and painful process of adapting to new global circumstances.
9797	In this respect, what the Commission says about boosting Europe' s voice is important.
9798	You yourself, Mr President, spoke of a model of which, unfortunately, there is little mention in the document. You said that we must offer our citizens a model of economic, social, cultural and ecological development, both internally and towards the outside world, which differs from other models, including the US model.
9799	In this sense, the USA is not only our partner; it is also our competitor; not our opponent, our competitor and we must fight to see which of us offers our citizens the best model.
9800	I hope that what we have said so clearly and vehemently here today will also be reinforced in the Commission documents.
9801	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the greatest legacy which your Commission could pass on to the European Union would be to help resettle and redistribute the increasingly jumbled and confused powers and competences of the Commission, and perhaps of the Union itself.
9802	You have made a bold start by rightly emphasising the need to focus on so-called "core tasks".
9803	That, as you have said yourself today, means that you must also identify tasks, policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the Commission's main vocation.
9804	Many existing European Union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date, or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at European level.
9805	The challenge now is to have the courage to devolve as many non-core tasks as possible back to lower levels of national, regional and local government.
9806	If we are to succeed in persuading a sceptical European public of the merits of further European integration, we must be able to demonstrate that we are as active in the devolution of unwarranted EU powers as we are in the evolution of new EU powers.
9807	We must not allow the critics of European integration to claim, as they presently do with some justification as we have just heard from Mr Bonde, that the increase in EU responsibilities is a one-way street only.
9808	It must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing EU policies and programmes, which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality, are devolved and repealed.
9809	If you are able to match these aspirations with actions in the years ahead, you will be making an unprecedented contribution to the future of the European Union as a whole and, as we have heard today, you will enjoy widespread support in this European Parliament.
9810	Madam President, Mr Prodi, I fully support the thinking of the proposals made by my colleague, Mrs Hautala, on the Commission' s strategic objectives for the coming five years.
9811	I myself want to refer to a subject which has not been mentioned but which is on the agenda, namely the Commission' s work programme for 2000.
9812	I am aware of the limitations of the exercise given that we have to work within the current Treaty and are therefore restricted by its operational rules. I am thinking in this respect of the important issue of taxation which I am not, however, going to talk about.
9813	Rather, I want to start by welcoming certain proposals which you have made in this programme for 2000.
9814	These include all the proposals on food safety which are ambitious and important and those on maritime safety which are particularly important given the two oil slicks which have affected the coast of Brittany and Turkey.
9815	The Commission should react quickly in this respect.
9816	However, on other issues the proposals could be more ambitious and faster acting.
9817	I have some positive suggestions to make, particularly on the social area, the environment and the follow-up to Seattle.
9818	Firstly, you have said that the citizens of Europe must be reconciled with the institutions.
9819	This is self-evident and it is therefore essential to find out their main concerns.
9820	For example, in the social area, it is not enough to announce a communication on a programme of social action.
9821	We must move faster.
9822	You must submit a new social action programme to us by the end of the year.
9823	The issue of company closures and mass redundancies is one which has been and still is very firmly in the news.
9824	We are working on the basis of a directive whose limitations have been clearly demonstrated. I therefore propose that this should be reviewed in order to produce a directive which is more effective in protecting employment and also in imposing penalties on those who do not comply.
9825	On the environment, you have announced a proposal for a decision on a sixth action programme on the environment.
9826	This is all very well but it seems that the text to be proposed will not contain any specific objectives or a timetable for implementation. Perhaps you can correct me on this.
9827	I personally feel that it is essential to have precise objectives and a proper timetable for implementation.
9828	In terms of civil liability for the environment, it is right that we finally have a White Paper.
9829	However, Parliament did ask for a legislative initiative six years ago.
9830	The White Paper clearly foreshadows this legislation but for when?
9831	You must realise that this process needs to be accelerated.
9832	Finally, after Kyoto, we should be able to rapidly produce precise proposals.
9833	Finally, on the subject of the WTO, the idea of relaunching a new global round is not necessarily bad.
9834	However, in the first place, the Commission should make proposals on changing the operational rules of the WTO.
9835	The Commission has a role both within the EU and throughout the world.
9836	The European Union must therefore instigate a re-evaluation of the WTO' s operation which must lead to precise proposals being made on its rules.
9837	Madam President, you spoke about fundamental political values, and one of the fundamental political values, even more important than democracy, is respect for others.
9838	We therefore feel that you acted correctly in sending a message and that perhaps those who protested about it are still feeling the effects of Bolshevism or Nazism. Democracy means dialogue with others and making others realise when they are wrong, but also listening to their explanations.
9839	Enlargement - and Alleanza Nazionale has been repeating this for ten years in this House - must not mean dilution, that is, it must not entail more risks.
9840	The applicant countries' hopes are at least as important as the hopes of our current fellow citizens, who are beginning to feel bitterly disappointed by the way Europe works, as it is not resolving the most serious problems.
9841	We therefore need to be strict in the enlargement process and respect those agreements which - should it be necessary - need to be redrafted with regard to certain fundamental issues such as the environmental disaster that has occurred in Romania, reaching as far as Belgrade, but above all, the continuing spread of apathy as regards major security issues.
9842	Even today, we do not have definite answers regarding the monitoring of the nuclear power stations in the eastern republics.
9843	We therefore need resources available to spend before proceeding to enlargement, so that we can at last establish a European monitoring body responsible for monitoring quality of life and living conditions, with the aim of creating a new world where such tragedies will no longer occur.
9844	I would also like to say a few words on Africa, Madam President.
9845	The third and fourth worlds have been abandoned: just one dollar, one and a half euro would be enough to save a great many children.
9846	Europe, which is so democratic, so progressive, does not speak out or take these tragic problems on board, while half of Africa is dying of Aids and other diseases.
9847	One final remark regarding the Internet and globalisation.
9848	Globalisation of the economy must not be reduced to product and quality certification, just as the globalisation of politics must not come to mean levelling of values or dampening of hopes and enthusiasm.
9849	The peoples which do not participate and gradually grow more distant will leave the way open for an oligarchy that will take power and leave control in the hands of a few.
9850	As for the Internet, Europe has finally found the courage to say that we need rules.
9851	On a personal note, please allow me at this time to congratulate the pirates who, by acting the way they are, are forcing the world to reflect on the only system which is currently unregulated.
9852	We live in a world of rules and regulations: let us regulate the Internet too and give our fellow citizens rules and hope for the future.
9853	Madam President, as a Padanian taxpayer, I have already experienced the vice-like grip of the taxman and former Prime Minister of Italy, Mr Prodi, since Padania is liable to Italy for its taxes as well.
9854	Listening to him just now, I was concerned when he mentioned new resources, something that readily translates as additional taxation, in view, inter alia, of enlargement, that is the entry of new States into the Union.
9855	But why do they not buy their own entrance ticket?
9856	My Padanian electorate who, thanks to Mr Prodi, have already paid what in Italy is known as the European tax - repaid only in part - have absolutely no intention, thanks once again to Mr Prodi, of paying another tax for someone else.
9857	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Members of the Commission, five months after its coming into office, the Commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the European Union.
9858	The ensuing document is both ambitious and bombastic.
9859	Is it not rather melodramatic to say that "the world looks up to Europe" ?
9860	Moreover, Europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen EU Member States.
9861	It is not rather ambitious to ensure peace, democracy and human rights in the whole of Europe, no less?
9862	I am particularly intrigued by how the Commission considers bringing this about.
9863	Does "the European integration model as a rich source for global administration" imply the export of a large-scale perspective and concentration of power?
9864	According to the Commission, external policy can succeed, provided everyone knows exactly who is in charge!
9865	So who is this then?
9866	The Commission as a whole, its President perhaps, the Council?
9867	You stated that the new European government requires strong institutions, while the Commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks.
9868	We could not agree more with the latter.
9869	It is high time that institutions restricted their scope to actual cross-border issues and stopped decking out the European cart with powers which they are taking away from national authorities.
9870	The document mentions common values on different occasions.
9871	Unfortunately, I find the reference to the relevant standards to be lacking.
9872	This raises the question as to what these standards and values are based on.
9873	I am convinced that the Bible, God' s word, is the only pure source of proper standards and real values.
9874	In the tradition of our continent, this realisation is an important one which merits recognition.
9875	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am not sure which to go by: the strategic objectives for 2000 to 2005 or your speech for 2000 to 2010?
9876	Have you already included your second term of office?
9877	But seriously.
9878	As it enlarges, the Union needs to be strengthened through streamlining and demarcation.
9879	First, streamlining.
9880	What you say in your programme about concentrating on the core functions of the Commission is only the beginning.
9881	The activities of the entire Union must be reduced to core areas of policy.
9882	In other words, a social, ecologically-orientated market, a secure currency, guaranteed civil rights internally and representation of common interests externally.
9883	It is not just that we need to speak out in the world with one voice; it is what we want to say with this voice that it is important.
9884	Secondly, the new "in" word is flexibility.
9885	However, increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation.
9886	We must hold fast to joint decision-making institutions which embrace the Member States.
9887	That also applies to the inclusion of the civil society, which is a welcome step.
9888	Our citizens do not need any new institutions and certainly no new mixing of powers.
9889	(Applause)
9890	Transparency does not mean more access to more paper; to our citizens, transparency means greater clarity at long last as to who takes decisions in Brussels and Strasbourg, when and with what right.
9891	That is transparency.
9892	Thirdly, the European Union cannot and should not enlarge endlessly.
9893	Its borders are set not by how may countries want to join, but by how many countries it can accommodate.
9894	(Applause)
9895	If the price of enlargement is the watering-down or even the break-up of the present Union, then it must not be paid.
9896	It is too high a price, not only for the Member States already in the Union but also for the states which want to join the Union.
9897	There is no future for a Union which is merely a geo-strategic concept or for a Union which is merely a free trade zone.
9898	But the Union will only continue to be more than a market and to be accredited by the people of Europe if it sees itself as a community of destinies.
9899	That goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new, better quality of life.
9900	Not only the Commission, not only the European Parliament but also the people and the states in our European Union will have to find new answers to the question of how and why we want to live and work together.
9901	In doing so, we need, no less, to reinvent the European Union, but without destroying the present Union.
9902	(Applause)
9903	Madam President, in the opinion of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, the most important task of the Commission and the whole Union in the coming years is the successful realisation of enlargement.
9904	The Commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the Union as soon as possible.
9905	On the other hand, we have to see to it that none of the achievements or aims of integration that have been stated thus far are watered down.
9906	To avoid this the European Liberal Democrats have expressed the hope that the Intergovernmental Conference will consider the various models of differentiated integration and create a concentric Union, in which there is a federal core and a less integrated outer ring.
9907	It is clear that the subject of the internal differentiation of the Union will be raised at the IGC.
9908	The subject needs to be discussed without prejudice.
9909	A technical improvement in the flexibility system will not be enough: we also have to raise the issue of developing our institutions for the countries in the vanguard as proposed by Jacques Delors, for example.
9910	In this way, a decision-making system can be created that is more effective, clearer, more open and more democratic.
9911	I hope that the Commission will make its own proposal concerning how the expanding Union might implement its institutional and other differentiation.
9912	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, your inspiring speech, Mr Prodi, has quite won me over.
9913	It raises expectations, but it can also lead to disappointment.
9914	This is connected to what Mr Van Velzen was just saying, about the difference between words and deeds.
9915	The enlargement of the Union is inspired by our wish for peace, security and stability.
9916	You are looking to reassure the acceding countries, as well as European opinion.
9917	But these days, we are witnessing the exact reverse before our very eyes.
9918	We have noted increasing levels of apprehension and disquiet, even within regions where unemployment is quite low and prosperity very high.
9919	We need to make our citizens feel at home, according to Mr Swoboda, and I agree.
9920	This is a place where we share the same values and where each and one of us also have our own task and responsibility.
9921	This is probably linked to the standards mentioned by Mr Van Dam, namely subsidiarity.
9922	It is necessary to have a clear division of responsibility among all levels of authority and to be partners, rather than competitors when it comes to policy.
9923	It is also necessary to exercise authority as closely as possible to the citizens, where it can be exercised with due transparency and can be monitored by the citizens themselves.
9924	That will require a new political culture, not only in words, but also in practice, which will take into consideration the reality of Member States and regions.
9925	Regions which, culturally and economically, sometimes match the interest of some Member States.
9926	The new Europe should not only expand horizontally, but also vertically, by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community.
9927	This is what the Commission will be judged on.
9928	Madam President, the Commission is today presenting its strategic objectives for 2000-2005. These are contained in an extremely general document in which all the problems have been glossed over to prevent any conflict.
9929	So, in the first part on the new forms of European governance, the words 'federalism' and 'superstate' are not mentioned at all.
9930	Yet these are the main themes in any discussion of strong European institutions in which only day-to-day tasks of execution are decentralised and a collective vision is promoted within an indistinct whole. In this scenario the governments and national parliaments are merged with the regional and even local authorities and with the civil society, all of which are described, with no form of hierarchy, as 'integral elements of European governance' .
9931	These ambiguities mask many misunderstandings, primarily about our values.
9932	It is not enough to claim to adhere to democracy in order to be a democrat.
9933	It must clearly be accepted that the people should be free to make their decisions at the level which best combines the objective conditions of an immediate, fair and transparent democratic debate, namely at national level in the main.
9934	Yet the whole of the Commission communication is based on the opposite theory. In this theory, on the pretext of ensuring the best protection for peoples, their margin of independent choice should be increasingly limited by new regulations, new policies or new, restrictive legal structures such as the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
9935	This Charter is really misnamed because it will actually reduce these rights.
9936	In the Union for a Europe of Nations Group our principles are rather different.
9937	Clearly we want to defend the countries of Europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations.
9938	This is not impossible.
9939	We must move away from the outmoded federalist schemes promoted by those whose every idea on European matters comes from the Memoires of Jean Monnet.
9940	Instead, we must open the European institutions to the modern world by creating a flexible dynamic which respects nations.
9941	This is the keynote idea on the new governance which we would have liked to have seen in your communication, Mr Prodi, but which is unfortunately not there.
9942	Madam President, Mr Prodi, you claim to be shaping a new Europe yet you are lacking one basic element: confidence.
9943	The confidence of millions of Europeans cannot be won without being worthy of this.
9944	And how could you be worthy of this after the mad cow scandal and the resignation of the Santer Commission for corruption?
9945	You are responsible for millions of unemployed and for millions living in poverty, insecurity and increasing misery because of your ultra-trade-oriented and ultra-liberal policies and because of the forced march towards the single currency.
9946	You wanted and have obtained the abolition of internal borders. Consequently, you have opened Europe up to an explosion in crime and insecurity and to a flood of uncontrolled immigration.
9947	You are now proposing to give all decision-making power to a handful of officials. The Member States, local authorities and NGOs will simply become enforcers of decisions handed down from above, all on an equal footing in their submission to Brussels.
9948	Not once does your twelve-page document mention the national parliaments even though they comprise the elected representatives of the people.
9949	Clearly, they have no role to play in your strategy.
9950	You dare not even call a spade a spade, but instead hide behind pseudo-trendy language by using the term 'governance' for what is nothing more than federal, autocratic, centralised government.
9951	Having tried for many years to persuade us by talking of shared sovereignty, you are now revealing your ultimate goal. You intend to trade in all European sovereignty, whether national or collective, for a world government in which you do not even expect to obtain a dominant position.
9952	Finally, you are daring to condemn and penalise the free and democratic vote of millions of Austrians, or are allowing this to happen, just because the result does not suit you. Yet at the same time you are supporting Communist China and trading with countries which have openly violated human rights for decades.
9953	Members of this House are today speaking out against a telegram from Mr Prodi to Chancellor Schüssel which, quite obviously, is not a demonstration of sympathy but rather a political manoeuvre.
9954	Your sabre-rattling fools no one because, as you know perfectly well, whether you like it or not, you need Austria in order to reform the Treaties and harmonise savings tax.
9955	You will cynically and hypocritically use Austria as a convenient threat to further strip the Member States of any real powers in the construction of the European Union.
9956	Your Commissioners are clearly not solely responsible for this.
9957	The governments which, through spinelessness or ideology, support you are also responsible.
9958	Brussels is not all of us, as you claim. It is all of you.
9959	Tell the truth for once. You could not care less what the people of Europe want.
9960	They are free to choose only between your brave new world and denouncement.
9961	It is over ten years since the collapse of the Soviet Union and yet your projects contain a strong hint of the gulags and mollifying moralism.
9962	We were among the small number who denounced the communist dictatorship.
9963	We are and will remain among those fighting against Europeanist dictatorship.
9964	We call on all the people of Europe to resist your monstrous projects.
9965	The salvation of European democracies is with nation states. Europe' s salvation lies in the cooperation of the nations of Europe.
9966	(Limited applause)
9967	President Prodi, today you have presented the Commission' s five-year programme, and it has many objectives that we endorse. It is a programme based on real-life situations and issues, and it is therefore right to put concrete measures aside for the moment and focus on the major issues.
9968	In my view, Mr Prodi, judging from the text and the document that you had sent to us, one subject that is very important to both of us has been given secondary importance, and that is solidarity, not so much at international level as at internal level.
9969	The Archbishop of Milan, Monsignor Carlo Maria Martini, is calling upon all politicians, in particular those like you and me, President Prodi, for whom the cultural and historic principle behind their presence in politics is the principle of the active involvement of Catholics in politics, to reconsider a development process, which, in addition to economic profit, takes the marginalised and those left behind by society very much into account.
9970	It is of the utmost importance to address the issue of those who cannot keep up, one which reminds us of how difficult and complicated it is to establish progress indicators and how inadequate it is to use the parameter of per capita income alone.
9971	It also reminds us of the need for a new growth model, one that is firmly rooted in the culture of the Catholics who are involved in social problems, who see, in the civil community and the social interaction that that must be encouraged and facilitated among the public, the most natural instruments for building solidarity.
9972	The fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom, which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced.
9973	This social freedom, which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor, gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability.
9974	Mr President, public institutions must not accept only the economic criterion.
9975	They must focus on service to people and commitment to achieving freedom for each individual, without forgetting, naturally, that all this cannot and must not conflict with the need to create business, to invest and risk, and in an ordered and focused system, entrepreneurs are able to make a substantial contribution to social growth solidarity.
9976	In the age of globalisation, which we do want to facilitate with a framework of specific rules that will provide guarantees to the economic operators and consumers, the European Commission cannot forget solidarity, and must call for its implementation through the use of all of man' s spiritual resources in his relations with his fellow man.
9977	Our heritage has taught us that politics must have a heart.
9978	We hope that the White Paper and the actions of you and your Commission will put this into practice.
9979	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, 'Shaping the new Europe' is an ambitious objective both for the Commission and for us all.
9980	Our ambitions and our work will be followed not only by people in our own countries, but also by many people outside Europe and the European Union.
9981	What sort of impression will an interested public, as well as the rest of the world, have of this five-year programme?
9982	My reply would be: a new start, a clear agenda for reform which confirms that the Union in the 2000s will not stop at being an economic community but will become a community that can be trusted and that we take seriously.
9983	The Commission is correct in stating that the Union intends to develop and safeguard the welfare state in an age of globalisation. It foresees a just and more effective Europe that also recognises its responsibilities beyond its own borders out of solidarity and enlightened self-interest.
9984	Consequently, we see poverty and exclusion as the greatest enemies of peace and freedom.
9985	I concur with what other members of my political group have said and I commend the tone of your document. However, there are two omissions which need to be addressed in our future work.
9986	The first concerns women, gender and women's rights.
9987	You talked about how women can help in increasing production and growth.
9988	That is important, but equality is not only necessary for productivity, but also to make our societies more democratic.
9989	It is therefore noticeable that 'equality', 'gender' and 'women' are barely mentioned in 'Shaping the New Europe'.
9990	You mentioned 'women' in your speech, but they are not referred to in the context of the strategic goals.
9991	Is that because mainstreaming is already so widespread in the Commission that there is no need to mention women?
9992	What other explanation could there be for omitting women?
9993	The EU must not take on a masculine persona.
9994	My other question concerns Africa, which is the only continent not mentioned in 'Shaping the New Europe'.
9995	Africa has the largest number of refugees in the world, the most overall poverty and a debilitating AIDS epidemic.
9996	I know that Commissioner Nielson and some of the other Commissioners are doing a fine job, but the rest of the Commission also needs to focus more clearly on that continent, partly by including it among its strategic goals.
9997	Finally, I welcome the Commission's statement and the fact that this says for the first time that the EU is prepared unilaterally to introduce measures to make it easier for developing countries to gain access to our markets.
9998	I would merely ask when this is likely to take effect.
9999	Madam President, President of the Commission, this is a vital document for the future and fate of Europe.
10000	However, out of all the points, two specifically require our attention, and they are closely linked: peace and stability within Europe and outside Europe.
10001	It is a question of objectives that must be pursued as a priority. For some time, we have all agreed on this notion, but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement, even if this comes at a price.
10002	Today, we have been called on to choose, for the forthcoming decades, between a Europe that might be less prosperous but a beacon of peace and civilisation for the whole planet and a Europe that might be more wealthy, but where there is uncertainty over what the future might bring.
10003	These goals will be more easily obtainable only if the Intergovernmental Conference, which will draw to a close within the year, results in constitutional reform, providing the Commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement Council decisions or Parliament' s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real European government.
10004	The first supporter of this reform should be Parliament itself, if it really wants to increase its role of interpreting the will of the Europeans and acquire the centrality which is part of a genuinely democratic and firmly integrated Union.
10005	Moreover, it will only be possible to give the Commission responsibility for the tasks it takes on according to the actual powers it will be accorded.
10006	Without these prospects that we have outlined, Europe would, once again, have no future.
10007	Madam President, Mr Prodi, we are pleased about the overall intention of the objectives announced which are in line with the challenges which Europe must overcome.
10008	I note that you consider the fall of the Berlin wall to be the crucial factor of the end of the century.
10009	This event must underpin enlargement.
10010	Rather than using the word 'enlargement' , I want to talk of reunification which has much greater political significance.
10011	Your idea is to concentrate your activities on the core tasks. This is one of the goals of your reform.
10012	In essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity.
10013	Precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence.
10014	However, saying is one thing and doing is another!
10015	You must therefore fight against the tendency of all institutions to try and increase their powers.
10016	I will therefore judge you on your deeds.
10017	In the meantime, I approve and encourage this clearly expressed desire in your communication.
10018	However, I must make two essential points. These concern the simplification and application of Community law.
10019	In 1998, 123 referrals were made to the Court of Justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25% of environmental directives were not applied or transposed.
10020	Recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential.
10021	Community law must not go unapplied because it is too complex or too pedantic.
10022	The Union must not make this mistake and I therefore regret the fact that your communication does not go into more detail on this.
10023	You are being realistic when you say that the welfare state can no longer provide adequate responses to the problems facing us, including unemployment.
10024	Nevertheless, I regret that a clear alternative has not been proposed.
10025	The emphasis should have been placed on the rejection of any policy of handouts and instead on the development of initiative and responsibility.
10026	You have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society, not only economically but also in terms of public health.
10027	This is a silent revolution and in this respect I expected more from your communication.
10028	Finally, you do highlight European research as being at the heart of our future.
10029	Yet you do not indicate the resources you intend to implement to achieve this.
10030	Also, ethical principles are at the heart of this research but your communication says nothing about these.
10031	If you want to better inform the people, you should start by strengthening liaison with this House, as we are the representatives of the citizens.
10032	Madam President, we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000, set out with so much enthusiasm by President Prodi this morning.
10033	In the two documents, strong emphasis is placed on the need to define new forms of European governance and, to this end, to introduce a new agenda for the Commission, establishing more stringent priorities in the pursuit of the goal of full employment, through more efficient coordination of the economic and social policies of the States, and, primarily - allow me to stress this - of the nations that have joined the monetary union and which must be enabled to become the first example of closer cooperation.
10034	To this end, I shall confine myself to stressing, out of all the choices available, the importance of three priority decisions which should, in the drawing-up of action programmes for the government of the Union, be the basis for both the Commission' s agenda and the actions of the European Union in the coming months.
10035	Firstly, the promotion of and participation in the drafting of joint plans for the creation of an integrated services network in the transport and energy sectors, with the backing of the European Investment Bank.
10036	Secondly, the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via Community projects in the priority sectors of research, innovation and training.
10037	I feel that these parameters - particularly those of a qualitative nature, resulting from investments in continuous training, refresher courses, adaptability and retraining of older workers - are considerably more significant and binding owing to their lasting effects over the medium term than the simple drawing up of annual quantitative objectives, that are always debatable, regarding new employment or employment cuts.
10038	If, among other things, as the programme of the Portuguese Presidency stresses as well, the Commission could promote a new phase of social dialogue, focusing on an agreed strategy of socialisation and diffusion of knowledge, in other words, a strategy for employability and the definition of its rules, this would allow us to take a step towards having employees participate in the informed and consensual management of the restructuring and reemployment processes.
10039	Thirdly, I do not think that the decrease in the number of the working population, owing to the ageing of the population, is unavoidable and inevitable for the European Union. This is not just because of the existence of margins which would permit an increase in the number of working women and immigration, but because we need to be determined in reversing the widespread trend of early retirements from the job market, and direct the coordinated reform of social welfare systems, certainly not towards large reductions in future pension payments but towards the active use of people' s increased life expectancy and towards a longer working life.
10040	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, you have come here today, Mr Prodi, in a very reformist and ambitious mood.
10041	I welcome you and your ambition.
10042	Ambition will be needed, given the mammoth task which awaits us.
10043	In order to make these reforms, however, and in order to make progress with the 2001 legislative programme, we must be very sure, not only of the strengths of the reformer himself, but also of the opinions of others.
10044	You say that you will not hesitate to come to this House to request more resources for the Commission, but the Commission must be aware that we are walking on thin financial ice.
10045	We have 1.27% of the Community' s GDP.
10046	Not a euro more or a euro less.
10047	It will not be us who refuse these new resources. You should ask the Council.
10048	These financial perspectives are adjusted to within a millimetre.
10049	In order to finance the stability plan for the Balkans, we will have to negotiate a significant revision of Category 4, and you must remember the enormous difficulties we have had in approving the 2000 budget.
10050	I would remind you that this Group, the PPE-DE, does not like to finance new political initiatives at the expense of existing ones.
10051	The political priorities must be set by this House and the MEPs.
10052	Do not believe for one moment that your proposed reform of the budget will disguise the limitations of the Community financial system.
10053	It is all very well for us, by mutual consensus, to make an effort in terms of budgetary rationalisation, but you must be very aware that the lack of resources, the absence of financial autonomy and the poor execution of the budget, continue to be urgent issues which must be resolved.
10054	We therefore wonder whether the Commission has the political will to resolve them.
10055	Madam President, the Commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever.
10056	On one hand, there are the words and, on the other, their real political meaning.
10057	We Socialists applaud the Commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty.
10058	Yet how can the gulf between political rhetoric and reality be filled?
10059	What is meant by the Commission' s declared objective of 'economic reform' in the labour market?
10060	Does this mean more flexibility, insecurity and fixed-term contracts?
10061	Everyone knows that quality of life and full and better employment depend on sustainable economic growth.
10062	The Union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient.
10063	We Socialists desperately want a European pact for growth and employment.
10064	The ingredients of this policy are well known. They are the stimulation of public and private investment, increased investment in research, education and training and the promotion of the spirit of enterprise.
10065	In this respect, the e-Europe initiative is to be welcomed.
10066	In the world of new technologies, the main danger remains that access to information will be easier the richer you are.
10067	The gulfs which are opening up everywhere are the main problem for our era.
10068	On one hand we have the exuberance of the financial markets and the explosion of wealth and, on the other, more widespread exclusion.
10069	We are asking workers to be flexible, innovative and ever more productive, yet the fruits of this productivity increasingly benefit the shareholders alone.
10070	The European Central Bank is keeping very quiet about the staggering rates of return on financial assets, yet it never misses an opportunity to remind us that any wage increase should remain below the rate of increase in productivity.
10071	How do we explain to workers who fall victim to the rationalisations of the worldwide Monopoly game that they must be prepared to change career several times in their working lives when the captains of industry, having lost the gamble of a take-over, leave with compensation of EUR 30 million?
10072	For years we have been told over and over that the economy must be liberalised.
10073	The sectors which have been liberalised are experiencing an avalanche of mergers and acquisitions, leading inevitably to monopoly situations.
10074	All these stock market battles are based solely on forecast increases in profit of 15%, 20% or 25% which are unrealistic in the long term.
10075	The unfettered rise in prices of financial assets and property means that the risks are on the increase.
10076	The main danger awaiting us in the medium term is not inflation but deflation caused by the collapse of the speculative bubbles on the international financial markets.
10077	To conclude, the next five years will be crucial.
10078	We need new rules to regulate globalisation and we need investment in the real economy and in people.
10079	We need the Member States and the Commission to ensure the social dimension of the market economy in a visible manner.
10080	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, in my view, this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses.
10081	There is no point in drawing up a new economic and social agenda if you have not even finished the old one.
10082	I am thinking of transport policy and regional policy.
10083	You have excellent Commissioners for both issues in Mrs Palacio and Mr Barnier, yet still you attach too little importance to these areas.
10084	And do you know why?
10085	Just look at transport policy; clearly it is crucial for this policy to be drawn up as a economically and ecologically sensible policy before the accession of other countries.
10086	I would be grateful if the President of the Commission would listen to what I have to say, although of course he has no obligation to do so.
10087	Let me give you three examples.
10088	First: we need reasonable deregulation of the railway sector because we want to shift freight from the roads to the railways.
10089	That makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view.
10090	Without deregulation we will not make any headway with a reasonable transport policy.
10091	The same applies to European air traffic control.
10092	Our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic, but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control, which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment.
10093	You still have not finished that agenda.
10094	Commissioner, far too little is said in your paper about regional policy.
10095	Economic and social cohesion in the EU is a fundamental task of this Community.
10096	If we fail to complete it, citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement.
10097	We must show them that we intend to use the next five years to help them join the rich regions by promoting the less favoured regions using reasonable means.
10098	Then they too will be prepared to really support enlargement and help to achieve it.
10099	Mr President of the Commission, if we do not manage to create true solidarity between the rich and the poor regions, then this Union will be all the poorer and it will not meet with the approval of the people.
10100	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage.
10101	From that standpoint, it is useful that the Commission' s work programme comes back to the issues of Agenda 2000, the common agricultural policy, which includes fishing, and secondly, the activities of the structural funds.
10102	I hope this reference means that the reorganisation of the Commission currently in progress will not damage the mechanism for monitoring and implementing Agenda 2000.
10103	The Agenda 2000 issues are, of course, ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives, the economic and social Agenda and a better quality of life.
10104	What your texts do not make apparent is the extent to which these major, high-minded objectives are compatible with the resources that the Commission intends to deploy.
10105	I do not necessarily mean financial resources.
10106	The implementation of Agenda 2000 in the agricultural sector does not ultimately require more money.
10107	There must also be savings.
10108	But what we need is the analytical resources: these issues require the investment of more intellectual capital.
10109	This is because it is essential to achieve two things: the European model of multifunctionality in agriculture must be secured, and this must be done in a way which facilitates the liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products, mainly to the benefit of developing countries.
10110	It is not easy to combine those aims.
10111	There is no obvious way.
10112	There may well be contradictions between the two objectives and there is nothing to show that the Commission has pointed out those contradictions and how it proposes to deal with them.
10113	As regards the other aspect of Agenda, the aspect of cohesion and regional development, there we do indeed have great achievements to point to, but there are still less developed regions, particularly island regions, to which more attention should be paid.
10114	As for fishing, there is nothing in your programme to tell us that the predatory exploitation of fishing grounds, which has gone as far as to wipe out entire species of fish, will certainly prove fruitful in the future.
10115	Perhaps these issues should be approached with greater attention and a greater esprit de finesse.
10116	Madam President, I want to start by reinforcing the caution that has been expressed by many colleagues here in addressing this five-year plan.
10117	In setting very ambitious long-term goals we must not take our eyes away from the present.
10118	That was a point made very forcibly by the leader of my group, Mr Poettering, in his opening address.
10119	The Union must not take on a whole range of new tasks without the basic foundation for a successful European economy being in place.
10120	That foundation is clearly the single market.
10121	How strongly is the single market established at the moment?
10122	I want to remind Mr Prodi, and his colleagues who are still here, of the findings of the Commission' s own survey among 3000 European businesses.
10123	Nearly 40% of businesses in this survey are still reporting additional costs to render products or services compatible with national specifications.
10124	This is the Commission' s own survey.
10125	These are the classic symptoms of continued obstruction by national governments - bureaucratic red-tape blocking market entry.
10126	The Commission' s programme shows a disturbing complacency about the completion of the internal market.
10127	We have to keep the pressure up in all areas by removing further barriers, intensifying pressure on Member States who fail to implement single market measures and, of course, extending into crucial new areas like financial services.
10128	Only on the strong foundation of the single market will the agenda of enlargement be successfully achieved.
10129	An enlarged Europe must build on the existing strengths of the Union.
10130	The single market extending across that enlarged Union is going to be a colossal achievement.
10131	I conclude by saying, on behalf of all my Conservative colleagues - and we are the second largest national delegation in this Parliament - that we pledge our full support to the Commission and to Mr Prodi in achieving this historic task.
10132	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I should like to start with a quote: "The Commission will continue to work towards establishing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights and draw up proposals to bring about an ambitious programme.
10133	The Commission is planning in particular to develop a genuine European policy on asylum and immigration. It wishes to boost judicial assistance and cooperation and to develop an effective approach to the fight against all forms of crime" .
10134	That is the entire programme for the next five years on the question of internal security, freedom, citizens' rights and judicial cooperation.
10135	A paper this short is a farce.
10136	A farce because we know and appreciate the work of Commissioner Vitorino and what we have here on paper is a blatant contradiction to how things actually stand.
10137	A paper such as this is no basis for a scoreboard.
10138	It has been extolled and celebrated as a huge achievement and I am all for it; we need a basis for a scoreboard.
10139	We here in Parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme.
10140	What we are looking for are minimum standards in asylum procedures so that refugees can be given help quickly, and those who are not fleeing know where they stand.
10141	We want instruments to prevent abuse.
10142	We want to develop a Community immigration policy which takes account of the Member States' capacity to absorb immigrants and we need to extend the operational powers of EUROPOL, for example, so that specific steps can be taken to combat organised crime.
10143	We debate these issues intensively and seriously and we should be entitled to expect likewise from the Commission, even where it is merely submitting a paper.
10144	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I rise to speak on the subject of the World Trade Organisation, on which there is a broad convergence of views between the Commission documents and the positions of the Socialist Group.
10145	This is not the case in other areas, as has already been pointed out.
10146	We share these views because we are in favour of world trade, but we want this trade to be conducted according to common standards, common rules which would regulate world trade with one aim in mind. This aim is that trade should benefit development, and particularly harmonious development in which the values of citizenship do not only apply to the world' s most dynamic and competitive regions.
10147	On the other hand, what does this statement tell us about principles?
10148	This regulation and these standards have brought an increased volume of trade for the World Trade Organisation, in other words, increased wealth, but when we look at how this wealth is distributed, we see, unfortunately, that the gulf between the world' s richest countries and blocks and the poorest and least developed countries continues to increase.
10149	It is therefore quite legitimate and even imperative that we ask ourselves, what purpose do the current common standards and rules serve?
10150	What good are the current way in which we negotiate and the way in which the World Trade Organisation works, if they cause trade to increase on the one hand, but on the other, they create problems and above all cause this gulf between rich and poor countries to grow?
10151	That is why we said that we were in favour of the strategy that the Commission outlined here for the Seattle negotiations and for later ones.
10152	We are certainly in favour of this strategic vision but we need to be brave and ambitious.
10153	We need to be demanding and ensure that social rights, environmental rights and consumer protection are incorporated into the forthcoming negotiations.
10154	Most importantly though, we must have a brave and ambitious long-term vision for reform, not just of the WTO but also of the ILO, the United Nations and above all, of the financial institutions, specifically the IMF and the World Bank.
10155	We must be brave and not only see some aspects of globalisation. We must be brave enough to have more of an overview of this process, so that wealth does not only benefit the most highly-developed blocks and countries, but that there is also harmonious change and development in every region in the world.
10156	Madam President, I would also like to welcome the Commission' s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years, although I hope that it intends, in subsequent documents, to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today.
10157	Having said this, Madam President, I am prepared, once again, to be a voice crying in the wilderness as a result of the absence of a fishing policy.
10158	It is really surprising that the Commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years, in view of the reform which must take place in 2002.
10159	There is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years.
10160	However, it seems that the Commission does not share this view, although it is the Commission which is obliged to present the Council and Parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001, and it is on this basis that the Council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification.
10161	In fact, the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions, such as the European Parliament, which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy.
10162	We have often asked for a basic timetable for this revision and we have received no reply.
10163	Less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process.
10164	Therefore, Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I would ask that this issue, which is of vital importance to a very significant industry within the European Union, be taken into account in this strategy and these strategic objectives for the next five years.
10165	Madam President, I should like to add my congratulations to Commissioner Prodi's programme.
10166	I particularly welcome his recognition of this virtuous circle of having sustained growth: the information society in an expanding European market with the addition of a fully functioning single currency which will give us the opportunity to genuinely promote prosperity, innovation enterprise, the entrepreneurial spirit and yes - most importantly of all - extra-high value sustainable jobs for our European citizens.
10167	I have one observation, not a criticism, to make regarding Commissioner Prodi's statement this morning and that is that it was a little weak on the actual content of economic policy.
10168	We must not take anything for granted in terms of how we get the European economy restructured.
10169	After all, what is social justice if it is without full employment?
10170	Full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens.
10171	This is a key priority for us to focus on.
10172	I should like to welcome one or two initiatives that have already come from the Commission which will help us: in particular Commissioner Liikanen's commitment to having an innovative knowledge-driven economy.
10173	Yes, e-Europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs.
10174	I welcome the Commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and I would like to congratulate our Portuguese Presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses.
10175	That is important and something that can be developed through the Lisbon Summit.
10176	I also welcome Commissioner Busquin's idea to have a common research area for the whole of the European Union.
10177	Again, this is a way that we can help create better opportunities for jobs and for prosperity.
10178	You said in your summary, Commissioner Prodi, that liberalisation, competitiveness, keeping inflation low, innovation, science and technology are central for the future success of the European economy and creating jobs.
10179	I very much agree with you on that, but we can take nothing for granted. There is still more we have to do, and the Lisbon Summit will become part of that.
10180	So with those remarks I would like to congratulate you on the programme and wish it every success.
10181	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme.
10182	To me, this Commission strategy paper for the next five years reads like a scientific paper on the European Union or a declaration of principle.
10183	Unfortunately, it does not give the impression of being a real political strategy on the part of the Commission.
10184	As the spokesperson for cultural and training policy for my group, I would have expected more in the way of agenda from an Italian President of the Commission.
10185	The Commission gives no soul to Europe.
10186	Culture and training simply do not exist in this paper, despite the fact that we need to create a real area of training and culture in Europe.
10187	Just a few main points.
10188	I am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture; they create jobs.
10189	I am talking about the introduction of cultural mainstreaming in all policy areas, about consolidating and improving the European dimension of training and education syllabuses and about networking training and education policies in Europe especially lifelong learning.
10190	Mr President of the Commission, it is the new millennium and you made no mention whatsoever of the audio-visual area of Europe.
10191	Nor was any mention made of information policy and communications catering to the needs of our citizens.
10192	It seems to me that something is missing from this programme.
10193	Truly European citizenship depends on our creating a real, visible area of training and culture.
10194	Declarations of principle are not enough.
10195	We need an agenda which can be translated into political action by the Commission on an ongoing basis in the way in which I have just described.
10196	Madam President, Mr Prodi, how would you take stock of your policy and work programme, what would your benchmark be, if you had to make direct choices?
10197	You have the fine, charming idea that the outcome and the benchmark for your policy and for your five-year programme will be the result of the elections, or rather the turnout at the next European elections.
10198	When I think that I have to explain your work programme week in, week out to my constituents, not in the rarefied atmosphere of this House, but on the street, then I ask myself, what can I say?
10199	Mr Prodi, what can I say; what is there that is new?
10200	There is nothing new in your work programme.
10201	You have taken 12 pages for five years and 18 pages for one year' s work programme.
10202	Does that give me hope for the year 2000?
10203	No, it does not!
10204	In your work programme for 2000 you state something quite clever.
10205	You say that environmental considerations must be integrated into all other policy areas.
10206	Have you done so, Mr Prodi; have you even read your work programme for the year?
10207	No, you have not done so.
10208	You have not integrated environmental policy into enlargement, despite the fact that it will be one of the fundamental problems of enlargement.
10209	Nor have you integrated it into economic policy, competition or the internal market.
10210	You have not integrated it anywhere.
10211	You have tacked a few components together but you have no overall structure.
10212	You said earlier in your speech that a disaster such as that of the Danube is an example of the need for an emergency structure; no, Mr Prodi, we need, at long last, to start transposing legislation and ensuring that legislation is monitored.
10213	You say in your five-year programme that the people of the European Union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation.
10214	Mr Prodi, you do not know what you are talking about.
10215	The foodstuffs legislation in the European Union is the most ambitious in the world.
10216	Where it falls short, what is missing, is transposition in the Member States and monitoring.
10217	It is time you took your job seriously, it is time for you, as President of the Commission, to box the Member States on the ears and force them to do their work and fulfil their duties.
10218	It is no good spending time on hobbies when there is a day' s work to be done.
10219	That is what we expect of you in the next five years.
10220	(ES) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, as chairman of this Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries, Mr Prodi, you are not making things easy for me at all.
10221	I feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us.
10222	The next five years of the Prodi Commission - as you solemnly announce in the first of your conclusions - will mean great change.
10223	I hope that this change will not mean an even greater marginalisation of fishing, since the silence of your programme, with regard to fishing, is deafening.
10224	Not a single line, nor a single word, refers to fishing or the CFP.
10225	I am not asking for details or specific points, but I believe that a mention was required.
10226	How could you completely ignore a common - I repeat; common - policy with such an economic, social and regional impact, and which therefore affects the economic and social cohesion of Europe?
10227	This is all the more serious, if that is possible - as others have said - bearing in mind that your Commission, Mr Prodi, has to carry out nothing less than a revision or reform of the current common fisheries policy, which you are legally required to do in 2002.
10228	Does the Commission intend to do nothing - at least it has announced nothing - about this reform in 2000 either?
10229	What message can we send to the fishermen of Europe, and their families, and the fishing industries, both the extractive and processing and marketing industries, and the related and secondary industries which depend on fishing in so many European ports, in so many European regions, in most cases peripheral regions, who rightly demand that this problem be dealt with as a priority?
10230	You have made an explicit reference to the CAP for the coming years, but you have not done so for the CFP, with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions - as has already been said - and in a global context, in the context of globalisation.
10231	This House has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second.
10232	I would therefore ask you, Mr Prodi, to make an explicit reference to this problem in your reply today.
10233	Our parliamentary Group will table an amendment in this respect and we expect a positive message from you.
10234	Mr President of the Commission, this is indeed an historic moment for Parliament, a five-year programme following the crisis of the Commission.
10235	On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to focus on the point of internal reform.
10236	We wholeheartedly support the programme as it is now laid down in a consultative document and which is also included in the programme of Vice-President, Mr Kinnock, on behalf of the Commission.
10237	We consider it to be of utmost importance that, in terms of financial control, personnel management and bureaucratic short-cuts, we can expect swift lines of policy and a more effective bureaucracy, for the benefit of the citizen.
10238	At the same time, we are aware that this is a massive programme and that, during the overhaul in the next couple of years, it will be necessary to keep the actual results coming in, as before.
10239	Much like in the Netherlands, where, at a given point, women woke up to the fact that, by referring to European legislation, they could improve their status in terms of social security, this is now also the case for scores of other citizens.
10240	They want to see results.
10241	Democracy, transparency and clarity always lead to results, citizens value results and this is what the Commission is judged on.
10242	This is exactly the point which Mr Swoboda and also other Members made: fear of modernisation, globalisation, and the individual losing his own sense of safety and security.
10243	This can be prevented if a European social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas.
10244	I would therefore strongly advocate internal reform which delivers fast and concrete results at a social level. This gives the citizen a sense of recognition, here in Europe and elsewhere.
10245	Because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions, such as education and health care.
10246	These are really the people who deserve our solidarity.
10247	Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I have read and re-read the Commission' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office.
10248	I am delighted that it is being discussed in Parliament, but I also note the compromises and the omissions in it.
10249	The Commission makes only a passing reference to economic and social cohesion, to solidarity between Member States and to the European Union' s regional policy.
10250	And this is true even when it addresses the issue of enlargement.
10251	Are reducing the disparities between levels of development and the consequent promotion of real convergence objectives that we have already achieved?
10252	Certainly not!
10253	At the same time, it was rightly pointed out that Europe must evaluate its role as a joint partner with developing countries, and strengthen its activities designed for fighting poverty.
10254	This document leaves out issues which clearly should have been included.
10255	I think the fact that the Commission does not address the issue of cohesion is extremely serious.
10256	It plays down one of the Treaties' principles - that of economic and social cohesion - which must inform all of the European institutions' policies and measures. It seems to ignore the fact that various European regions are still considerably less advanced than others.
10257	It also forgets that enlargement means that we must get regional policy right. Unless we achieve real convergence, the cohesion of the European Union itself will be at risk.
10258	We should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the European Union, for which the Commission is responsible.
10259	This report confirms that whereas an average level of development is given a rating of 100, the ten so-called "strongest" regions reached an average of 158, and the ten so-called "weakest" regions reached a figure of around 50.
10260	You may draw your own conclusions.
10261	50 is exactly the level of development of my own region, the Azores, one of the regions defined in the Treaties as ultra-peripheral.
10262	I am waiting for the Commission' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions, which the Council decided should be drawn up by December 1999.
10263	I shall finish by restating my conviction that without economic and social cohesion, there will be no cohesion at all, only disunity.
10264	Madam President, Mr Prodi, Europe needs a strong Commission.
10265	As intended by the Treaties and the will of the people, the Commission is the driving force of European construction which is like a rock of Sisyphus which we have to push back up to the summit again together after each round of enlargement. We therefore need a strong Commission but one which relies on the support of a parliament.
10266	This House is therefore your ally but not one which is too accommodating. You must therefore listen to our opinions, one or two of which I wish to express in my brief speech.
10267	Firstly, Mr President, although your two predecessors concentrated on developing an internal market and establishing the single currency, it has been left to you to develop this whole value of citizenship which is at the heart of European construction.
10268	You must not allow yourself to be distracted by the sole issue of enlargement, however important this may be.
10269	You must go further, towards reconciling the people with Europe, in particular those people who are falling victim to economic, social and, probably, in the future, technological divisions.
10270	The promotion of scientific development and new technologies and access for all to these technologies will not be provided by the market or competition. The latter will also not ensure the social proximity and effectiveness of the main community services of health, education, transport, communications, water and whatever else.
10271	Your action programme and your objectives are reserved, even silent, specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed.
10272	This is also the case with the consolidation and financing of the main public and general interest services.
10273	This is an absolute priority if you are to reconcile Europe with the people and ensure that the people choose Europe rather than Jörg Haider.
10274	Madam President, the Commission was correct to make food safety one of its top priorities.
10275	The recent dioxin scare in Belgium, prior to that the BSE crisis in Britain, and the continuing controversy over the safety of genetically-modified foods, have all contributed to undermining consumer confidence in the safety of the food they eat.
10276	If the Commission can indeed restore confidence in the food production chain it will simultaneously restore confidence in the European Union institutions themselves and demonstrate their ability to protect the rights of EU citizens.
10277	I therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety, public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the Commission's work programme for 2000.
10278	However, I was disappointed with the nature of the proposal for the establishment of a European food authority in the recent White Paper.
10279	In its present form, what is being proposed is more like an advisory agency to the Commission rather than an independent body that would have decision- and law-making powers more similar to those of the US Food and Drug Administration, which has already established credibility in this particular field.
10280	Furthermore, future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the European food authority and the authorities of national Member States, for example the food safety authority in Ireland.
10281	This body, for example, alongside the recently established cross-border body in Ireland for food safety, is already doing good work.
10282	It would be a tragedy if their efforts were to be undermined by deficiencies in EU legislation.
10283	My fear is that such deficiencies in EU legislation could lead to turf wars between national and EU bodies, who should be working together rather than against one another.
10284	That is something we must guard against.
10285	Madam President, the presentation by President Prodi today has necessarily been a fairly broad brush affair.
10286	We will be looking for the detail year by year, for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year.
10287	We will also be looking at this from the perspective of social and employment policy, and will be applying a number of tests.
10288	We will be looking at the extent to which we can create an equilateral policy triangle combining economic policy, employment policy and social policy. At the moment, social policy is trailing well behind economic and employment policy.
10289	Within the employment strategy we will look for a deepening and broadening of the strategy following the review under the Portuguese presidency and within the framework being proposed by the Portuguese Presidency.
10290	Within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect.
10291	The spate of mergers, takeovers and transfers that we are experiencing with the deepening of the market means that we must act to update the matrix of information and consultation directives that we have adopted in the past; but we must also complement them with the new general framework of information and consultation and an updating of the works council directive.
10292	We also need a code of corporate conduct to make sure that companies in fact work in partnership with their workers in the management of change.
10293	That is the successful way to manage change, and I hope the Commission will act to make sure that is put into place.
10294	Finally, with the emergence, the resurgence, of the xenophobic Right within the European Union I hope that our institutions together will do their utmost to give reality to Article 6 by using Article 13 to combat discrimination, and Article 137 to combat exclusion.
10295	We need to move that agenda forward with great urgency now.
10296	The aspirations are fine, President Prodi, we want those aspirations to be matched by action.
10297	Madam President, I hope that it is a good omen that there are still a few i's left for me to dot.
10298	Mr Prodi, you set great store in your reform efforts on introducing a forward-looking employment policy throughout Europe.
10299	However, for the economic sector which I represent, i.e. fisheries, this means change.
10300	We need to break away from planned economy subsidies in favour of a liberal policy which fosters personal responsibility.
10301	We must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry.
10302	What it comes down to is the competitiveness of the European economy on the world market and the existence of thousands of jobs in the processing industry and offshore fishing.
10303	However, I am sure that I do not need to remind you of the importance of a branch of the economy which is both an economic and a social factor, which affects not only Germany but all the coastal regions of Europe.
10304	Plus, this branch of the economy is one of the few sectors in which Europe has fully integrated powers to decide and act, which is why we expect to be given a right of codecision here too.
10305	This has since been unanimously approved.
10306	The fisheries policy is due for review in a few months' time, i.e. at the beginning of the year 2000.
10307	So it is somewhat upsetting that there is not so much as a mention of this branch of the economy is this paper.
10308	I hope that this is a misunderstanding.
10309	Please, Mr Prodi, stand by your word and implement your promises.
10310	Madam President, many of the speakers from the Socialist Group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the Commission' s statement.
10311	However, we have acknowledged that this is an innovative and very welcome initiative by the Commission.
10312	One area that I want to focus on, in addition to those already identified, is that of cultural diversity in Europe.
10313	The introduction to this statement acknowledges under the quality of life section that it is important.
10314	But there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the Commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity.
10315	If we are to ensure that we defeat the fear-mongers amongst us - those seeking power on the backs of anxious citizens - then we must seriously address the question of how we can live together and how we can dismantle the negative stereotypes that we have of each other, both within the present European Union and among those who seek to join us and, indeed, among those in other parts of Europe and the world who want to come and live and work in Europe.
10316	Unless we address these issues, unless we dismantle these negative stereotypes, unless we take what is best from our various cultures and languages and protect and expand it and ensure that we are serious about having a diverse Europe, we will fail.
10317	Those who are currently coming to the fore in Europe based on fear will win the day.
10318	I am seriously concerned that unless the Commission recognises that this is an important aspect of how we will create a cohesive Europe, we will make progress on the economic front, on the employment front and even on the issue of foreign and security policy, but our citizens will still remain fearful because they will fear the unknown and they will fear those they do not understand.
10319	If we do not take steps to deal with that, we will fail ultimately.
10320	Thank you, Mr De Rossa.
10321	Before giving the floor again to the President of the Commission, I must tell you that I have received, pursuant to Rule 37, seven motions for resolutions to conclude the debate.
10322	Welcome
10323	I would like to inform you that there is a delegation from Kuwait, led by His Excellency, Sheikh Salem Al-Sabah, Vice-Prime Minister and Defence Minister, here in the official gallery.
10324	On behalf of the House, I would like to welcome you to the European Parliament.
10325	Mr President, I should like to raise a point of order in relation to the activities organised today by the Association of Parliamentary Assistants in support of their call for a statute for assistants to be adopted as soon as possible.
10326	I understand that on 26 January the association wrote to the College of Quaestors requesting permission to set up a table outside the Hemicycle today to publicise their initiative.
10327	On the same day, I understand, Mr Balfe gave permission for the assistants to go ahead.
10328	The Parliament services asked to meet with the assistants yesterday to make the necessary physical arrangements.
10329	However, the appointment was cancelled at the last minute.
10330	Parliament has not yet indicated why permission was withdrawn.
10331	Mrs Banotti apparently promised to write a letter explaining why permission was withdrawn but so far no letter has been received.
10332	Can you explain why the approval given to the assistants was withdrawn at the last minute?
10333	Do you agree that the assistants have a legitimate case which must be heard?
10334	Will you do everything in your power to ensure that such last-minute cancellations do not happen again?
10335	Will you do everything in your power to ensure that a statute for assistants is adopted as soon as possible?
10336	Finally, will you make sure that in the meantime Parliament's rules are properly implemented and that assistants are paid, as they should be, on the basis of all the work they do for us?
10337	Without them we would not be able to function.
10338	Mr President, I also rise on a point of order.
10339	Are there any rules or regulations that govern demonstrations within the building of this Parliament, outside the doors of the Hemicycle, to ensure that MEPs are free to come into this Hemicycle to discharge their mandate?
10340	If there are such rules, who has the responsibility for enforcing them and what are they doing to discharge that responsibility?
10341	Mr President, I would like to take up the matter of the statute for assistants, which we have always considered to be a priority, and inform you that - as the Italian delegation of the group - in response to the invitation from the group leader, Mr Barón Crespo, we have forwarded the contracts that we drew up with the assistants to the Quaestors.
10342	I think that we need to make a tangible gesture in order to get a solution to this problem underway. I would therefore like to call on the Presidency of Parliament to consider that it might be appropriate for the Presidency itself to invite the Members to do likewise.
10343	Mr President, first of all let me say that I am in full support of a statute for assistants.
10344	Yesterday when I arrived in Parliament I was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of Parliament.
10345	As all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the Comart committee of Parliament.
10346	To give a non-contentious example, no commercial exhibitions can be held here in Parliament for obvious reasons.
10347	Following a letter I received yesterday, I immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration, probably in the near future and possibly in the next month.
10348	But all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of Parliament.
10349	I signed a letter yesterday afternoon, in the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament, in which the assistants were informed of this.
10350	But I am also told that they were informed verbally of this decision by the Committee of Chairmen of Groups last Thursday, so they were fully aware of the decision.
10351	There is no problem with them telling us the way they feel, there is no problem with a possible meeting during Parliament's next part-session.
10352	But there was some misunderstanding, for they did receive a letter from somebody else that they felt gave them permission.
10353	But all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called Comart committee.
10354	As you can see we have many exhibitions around Parliament, whether they be about different countries or whatever.
10355	This is not an attempt to either censor or go against the very real and justifiable principle that we should have a statute for assistants.
10356	Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
10357	I think your intervention may clarify various points that were raised.
10358	Mr President, I wanted to point out an important matter of principle.
10359	I personally believe that it is nothing short of scandalous that we hear Members of this Parliament attacking the demonstration rather than looking at the solution to the problem, which is fair conditions, fair pay and fair hours.
10360	We shall now proceed to the vote.1
10361	VOTE
10362	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party, the delegation of the Spanish People' s Party, with regard to Mrs Terrón i Cusí' s resolution on the area of freedom, security and justice.
10363	There have been some votes where we have not followed the guidelines of the Group of the European People' s Party, and we have voted in favour of the Terrón i Cusí resolution, which we consider on the whole to be excellent.
10364	However, we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6, because they seem to us to be legally incorrect.
10365	On the other hand, we have voted in favour of Recital J which, in fact, is in line with what I, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, proposed to that Committee, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference.
10366	We have also voted in favour of paragraph 13.
10367	An appropriate statute and the right of movement and settlement for residents of non-EU countries is something which the Spanish People' s Party has been advocating for some time.
10368	For similar reasons, we have voted in favour of paragraph 14 which, with the oral amendment, dealt with certain very justifiable concerns about the question of subsidiarity, since political rights, not just voting in local elections, but political rights in general terms, form part of the sovereignty of Member States.
10369	Given the oral amendment, we felt we could vote in favour and that is what we have done.
10370	.
10371	(DA) The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the proposed resolution, but are at the same time aware of the fact that certain areas clash with the reservation Denmark has in the legal sphere - a reservation which the Danish delegation in the Group of the Party of European Socialists naturally wishes to respect.
10372	This report which I voted against is less concerned with human rights than with 'communitisation' or the consolidation of Fortress Europe.
10373	The supposed progress achieved in 1999 and mentioned by the report only occurred in the Dublin Conventions and Schengen Agreements and a further action plan from Tampere which all restrict the rights of immigrants. In terms of human rights, this is a backward step.
10374	Europe is continuing to expel nationals arriving from countries regarded as dangerous by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Yet some applicant countries in central and eastern Europe are taking in gypsy refugees expelled en masse from Belgium.
10375	Kosovo Albanians and Serb deserters are being refused refugee status, whereas Pinochet is calmly escaping prosecution.
10376	The Europe of Schengen clearly finds it much easier to hound the persecuted from the south than dictators, even though the UN estimates that we will need 159 million immigrants to maintain a stable population between now and the year 2025.
10377	Europe should regularise the situation of all its illegal immigrants and grant them right of asylum and the right to vote in all elections. Only then can we talk in this House about an area of freedom and justice.
10378	McCarthy report (A5-0026/2000)
10379	Mr President, I would firstly like to point out that I was Mayor of Bilbao during the nineties, which gave me the opportunity to present one of the first urban pilot projects to be subsidised by the Commission.
10380	Our experience with that pilot project in Bilbao led us to four conclusions: firstly, that Europe must maintain an urban policy and therefore, far from reducing the EUR 900 million for the last five year period to EUR 700 million for this five year period, the funding of this project should be increased. This should be done, for example - and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has proposed this - by reinvesting, in URBAN projects, that portion of the Structural Funds which each Member State has not spent within the time scales laid down for that purpose.
10381	Secondly, when deciding which areas must be subsidised, we must concentrate efforts on integrated projects.
10382	Disparate actions are not effective.
10383	We have to select locations by prioritising those which are most impoverished and needy, in accordance with the objectives set, that is to say, the social, economic, environmental and democratic management dimensions, as well as the relationship between them.
10384	Thirdly, we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other Community programmes, as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question.
10385	Finally, we have to put our trust in, and support, the institutions which are closest to the citizens, that is, the local councils and bodies.
10386	They have more first-hand knowledge of social needs. They have more involvement in the problems and, furthermore, they know how to conceive projects and implement them effectively without weighing them down with bureaucracy, and thereby achieve better results.
10387	Lastly, in today' s vote on our four amendments, two have been approved and the other two rejected.
10388	This has obliged us to abstain from the final vote, because we do not understand how we can ignore the environmental question when deciding which projects must be financed and we do not understand how we can reject the idea that each Member State can dedicate, to URBAN projects, that portion of the Structural Funds which it has not spent in accordance with Community programmes.
10389	Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism had an in-depth discussion on the URBAN initiative which produced many ideas.
10390	As the smallest Community initiative in existence, we therefore proposed an increase in its funding through an amendment which was rejected.
10391	We regret this as there was actually money left over from the Structural Funds in some countries which could really have helped with pilot projects. We should remember that it is these URBAN projects which specifically allow a truly urban policy to be established.
10392	The Commission should also pay attention to coherence between the various policies which are in place. It should make URBAN projects coherent with future projects in budget lines entitled 'sustainable urban policy' .
10393	Finally, there is currently still no European urban policy within the European Union. Perhaps this point could be developed in the context of reorganisation and the Intergovernmental Conference so that the European Union finally has a true urban policy.
10394	Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted for this report on sustainable urban development, known as URBAN.
10395	As with all other Community initiatives, this is very positive.
10396	Europe is making its presence felt at a time when we are doing something for all the citizens of Europe and not simply for the development of an individual State, whichever one it may be.
10397	URBAN is designed to find solutions to urban decay, and this is something of great concern to the elderly and therefore of great concern to the Pensioners' Party.
10398	There can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city.
10399	I hope that this Community initiative will help serve as an example on how to resolve the problems faced by the elderly in cities.
10400	.
10401	(DA) The Left' s five Members of the European Parliament have chosen to support LEADER+, the EQUAL initiative and INTERREG, but not URBAN.
10402	At a forthcoming review of these programmes, it ought to be established that the EU' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the EU.
10403	.
10404	(DA) We have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the Commission concerning the guidelines for a Community initiative relating to the economic and social regeneration of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis and designed to promote sustainable development (URBAN).
10405	Basically, we are opposed to programmes and structural funds of this type but, since the vote only concerns how - and not to what extent - these resources are to be used, we have confined ourselves to assessing the contents and think, in general, that the proposal for regenerating neighbourhoods in crisis contains some sensible observations, as well as some good suggestions and criteria for the relevant projects.
10406	This report contains general points on what is referred to as the urban regeneration strategy for town centres and neighbourhoods affected by the crisis in the capitalist economy and its consequences, i.e. increasing unemployment, exclusion and delinquency.
10407	It underlines the fact that, in order to ensure sustainable urban development, an urban policy must be implemented which does not leave out the main victims of the economic crisis, namely the unemployed, immigrants, refugees, women and the socially excluded.
10408	However, nothing is said about the causes of this crisis and those responsible for it.
10409	At best this report simply corrects certain aspects and effects of the crisis. Yet only scandalously limited resources are available for this work.
10410	As the report itself indicates, the funds allocated to the URBAN II programme for the 2000-2006 period are approximately 30% less than those in the previous period, which were already low, at EUR 900 million. Added to this is the fact that only about fifty projects are considered for the whole of Europe which is pathetic when practically all European city districts, both suburban and inner city, are affected.
10411	This is why we will vote individually in favour of the specific measures planned to help certain social categories which are most disadvantaged but will abstain on the report itself in order to denounce the fact that in the main it consists of pious hopes financed on the cheap.
10412	- (FR) Mrs McCarthy, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the URBAN Community Initiative is being continued as this aims to support the social and economic conversion of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis, all with a view to achieving sustainable urban development.
10413	With some 80% of the population of Europe living in an urban area, cities are at the forefront of economic, social and cultural change in Europe.
10414	At the same time, the social and economic problems facing European society are more pronounced in urban areas.
10415	Many European cities are divided into neighbourhoods characterised by high-added-value activities and high-income residents and other districts characterised by low incomes, high unemployment, substandard and overcrowded housing and high levels of welfare dependency.
10416	The concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved.
10417	This is why the European Parliament successfully called for the URBAN Community Initiative or CIP to be extended during the reform of the Structural Funds.
10418	The success of URBAN during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable.
10419	The results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas.
10420	This CIP has encouraged the development of best practice models in the economic, social and environmental sectors.
10421	It has also had the distinction of strengthening the role of local authorities, the non-governmental sector and local communities and of supporting new partnership approaches to urban regeneration.
10422	The new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them, while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups.
10423	We can therefore welcome its adoption.
10424	We must, however, admit that in financial terms we cannot proclaim a victory! The total appropriation allocated is not up to the challenge.
10425	The amount for the 1994-1999 period was EUR 900 million and will be EUR 700 million for the 2000-2006 period. This represents a drop of 30%!
10426	This reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new URBAN initiative.
10427	The chosen threshold of 50 projects seems too low.
10428	It needs to be increased to reflect regional and local factors whilst maintaining financial awards to the Member States.
10429	In view of this concentration on a limited number of projects, the publication and dissemination of the results of the new URBAN Community Initiative will perhaps be particularly important to achieve a multiplier effect.
10430	The McCarthy report on the URBAN Community Initiative gives us an opportunity to reflect on the appropriateness of Community intervention in urban matters.
10431	The situation of certain urban areas is alarming, with the social distress taking the form of unemployment, misery and crime.
10432	Drug dealing in particular fuels insecurity and delinquency.
10433	Faced with these social challenges, the effectiveness of the Structural Funds is still in doubt.
10434	Subsidiarity should make us realise that the state, exercising its governing functions, and local authorities are the bodies most able to intervene appropriately. The state can ensure public safety and the local authorities can help disadvantaged people.
10435	Although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises, the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way.
10436	The URBAN Community Initiative is helping to achieve the European Union' s desire to communitise urban policy.
10437	It would be more appropriate for the EU to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing European policies.
10438	Clearly some people are profiting from the opportunity to indulge in another budget bidding race which is particularly mistimed when the convergence criteria for EMU are imposing a very strict slimming regime on the national budgets.
10439	Mrs McCarthy is therefore suggesting an increase in the funds allocated to URBAN and the promotion of this Community initiative through a costly communication campaign extolling the benefits of a federal Europe.
10440	We should remember that the effectiveness of expenditure is not measured by the volume of funding allocated to the project.
10441	In fact, the beneficiaries of too many and too high subsidies will eventually just take these for granted.
10442	The aim must not be to help the people but to make them take responsibility.
10443	Finally, the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities.
10444	We can only condemn a policy on minorities which is inevitably dangerous for social cohesion.
10445	On one hand, this policy encourages the integration of immigrants where it should favour their assimilation into the culture of the host country. This would prevent the development of ethnic ghettos which are nothing more than urban powder kegs.
10446	On the other hand, it manipulates the principle of positive discrimination. This is a politically correct fancy which can be just as harmful, as shown by the US precedent.
10447	For all these reasons, the French delegation of the UEN Group could not approve the McCarthy report.
10448	Decourrière report (A5-0028/2000)
10449	Mr President, the INTERREG programme is particularly close to our hearts.
10450	Like many of my colleagues, I am pleased that the European Parliament was able to safeguard this initiative.
10451	As I live in the Sarre-Lor-Lux Sud region of Belgium, I am well aware that the regions are where Europe is being created. They are where we live the European experience on a daily basis and where the people make European construction come alive.
10452	These projects must therefore be properly taken into account and must integrate sustainable development.
10453	Why am I stressing this point?
10454	The answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted.
10455	For example, to accept new roads is to accept new pollution within the European Union. This goes totally against the policies which we are proposing to fight greenhouse gas emissions, for example.
10456	I would also ask the Commission to ensure that the environmental pillar of the EU' s policy is integrated into the projects submitted and that the goal of reducing CO2 for example forms an experimental added value in the projects proposed.
10457	I am particularly thinking in this respect of certain infrastructures which are under construction.
10458	We know that some Member States are still wavering, for example, between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the Pyrenees, as in the Aspe valley.
10459	However, I am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway, the A32.
10460	In this respect too, I would ask the Commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies, specifically in the INTERREG programmes which are being submitted.
10461	Mr President, I voted for the Decourrière report on the Community initiative INTERREG, mainly because of the reply Commissioner Barnier gave to some Members who took the floor and asked for this programme to make greater reference to border regions with maritime frontiers.
10462	I voted for it, not just because I was born in a coastal town, Genoa, but above all because the frontiers of regions bordered by the sea are frontiers too.
10463	These frontiers stretch as far as African states and the Middle East: we must take greater account of the fact that it is also important to develop coastal regions in every part of Europe.
10464	As an MEP from a border region, I welcome this third INTERREG initiative with great interest.
10465	We can never talk enough about the difficulties experienced in the past by maritime and landlocked border regions which have been cut off economically, socially and culturally.
10466	Due to the existence of these borders, they have become peripheral areas within the countries to which they belong. This has too often led the national authorities to neglect these regions in national policy.
10467	This is why the INTERREG Community Initiative was launched in 1990.
10468	This programme was designed to encourage cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the Community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the Union.
10469	INTERREG serves principally to fund Community schemes to develop SMEs, education and training, cultural exchanges, action to combat health problems, the protection and improvement of the environment, energy, transport and telecommunications networks.
10470	I must stress that interregional cooperation significantly encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of European integration.
10471	More active participation by these authorities in Community initiatives should be promoted, bearing in mind that in many cases they have a very limited capacity for cooperation because of the different legal frameworks and different levels of development on either side of the border.
10472	In cross-border cooperation, greater emphasis must be placed on improving the conditions for the economic activity of the small and medium-sized undertakings which are the job creators.
10473	In the same respect, given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50% of all unemployment, the INTERREG funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment.
10474	Obstacles too often caused by double taxation and social protection are preventing, braking or hindering cross-border mobility.
10475	I hope that the projects included within the programmes can help to provide solutions to these problems and to implement in practical terms the principle of free movement of workers which is in a bad way in my region!
10476	INTERREG resources must also contribute to the development of a European research area.
10477	Finally, and in particular, expectations in the regions about this initiative are high given that small towns not eligible for Objective 2 funding are hoping to obtain compensation through INTERREG!
10478	The challenges are therefore immense. The integration of the border regions will be an essential element in the development of a future European regional development policy!
10479	I hope everyone, like Mr Decourrière, whom I congratulate, will realise this!
10480	- (FR) The INTERREG Community Initiative is just one element of an ill-fated European regional policy.
10481	This apparently generous policy, officially intended to help problem regions, is a fool' s bargain for French taxpayers. France contributes 17% of the European budget yet will receive only 8% of the regional Structural Funds.
10482	Between 1994 and 1999, our regions annually received an average of FF 15.4 billion but will receive only FF 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006.
10483	My region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais will be particularly affected with French Hainaut losing the aid paid to Objective 1 regions.
10484	This loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade Europe.
10485	The European regional policy also reinforces the centralism of Brussels with which the regional authorities are invited to negotiate directly on the use of the Structural Funds.
10486	This is a Europe of regions in which the regions, which are weaker than the nation states, will easily submit to Brussels.
10487	The INTERREG initiative, launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a Europe without borders and therefore without nations, sits comfortably within this philosophy.
10488	However, Mr Decourrière does show some common sense by denouncing the failings of the Brussels technocrats. These failings will result in particular in the late implementation of INTERREG III and therefore in financial losses for the regions in receipt of aid.
10489	We also agree with the rapporteur about asking for more attention to be paid to small and medium-sized undertakings and, of course, about refusing to use outside service providers. These are the procedures which caused the corruption scandal in the previous Commission.
10490	However, these isolated elements which make sense and for which we voted, in no way remedy the Eurofederalist philosophy which characterises the Community initiatives, particularly INTERREG.
10491	This is why the National Front voted against the report.
10492	The European Parliament has delivered an opinion on the Commission guidelines for the INTERREG Community Initiative concerning cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation.
10493	I want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this Community initiative.
10494	This does not involve the concerns about the future of the Atlantic Arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand A on cross-border cooperation.
10495	In the Commission guidelines, few maritime areas are eligible for INTERREG IIIA.
10496	The amendments to the Decourrière report aim to make INTERREG more maritime-oriented.
10497	This is an important development which must be supported as it is the future of the EU which is at stake.
10498	I am aware of the Commission' s reluctance on this subject as it announced during the symposium on the presentation of INTERREG III last November.
10499	However, I must point out that preventing the recognition of maritime borders amounts to denying the existence of an area which has great potential for projects and innovation.
10500	One example of this is the 'Celtic' area which encompasses the territories of Brittany in France, Cornwall and Devon in the United Kingdom and Cork and Waterford in Ireland. This is an area whose locally-based economy is characterised by dependence on the fishing industry and the importance of the agri-foodstuffs sector.
10501	It also has excellent cultural and relational links, through twinnings for example. INTERREG III, strand A, would allow the regions in this area to advance a number of structural projects needed to develop small and medium-sized undertakings and to promote research and technical development through knowledge transfer.
10502	The European Commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions.
10503	This policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in Brittany in that catches could be unloaded at Irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the Breton agri-foodstuffs industry.
10504	The integration of the maritime border into strand A would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the 'continentalisation' of the European Union.
10505	This would show respect for these peripheral areas which are rather concerned about enlargement to the east.
10506	The maritime world has great potential.
10507	We therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot Community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of Europe to be defined.
